https://www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/employment-practices/guidelines/tripartite-advisory-on-the-employment-of-term-contract-employees.pdf
 
1 
 TRIPARTITE ADVISORY ON THE EMPLOYMENT OF  
TERM CONTRACT EMPLOYEES 
 
 
Introduction 
 
1.  Although the majority of working residents remain e mployed in permanent 
positions, term contract employees form a small but  significant proportion of our 
workforce.  
 
2.  Term contract employees are those who are on fixed- term contracts of 
employment that will terminate upon the expiry of a  specific term unless it is 
renewed.  
 
3.  Employers may wish to employ employees on term cont racts for example, 
when the job is only available on a temporary/ proj ect basis or there is a headcount 
constraint. Some employees themselves prefer to ent er into contract work to meet 
their own need for flexibility in work schedule.  
 
4.  The Tripartite Partners have therefore developed th is Advisory on good 
employment practices for employers when engaging em ployees on term contracts. 
 
   
2 
 A.  Granting of leave benefits to term contract emp loyees with long term 
working relationship  
 
5.  Term contract employees are entitled to statutory l eave benefits under the 
Employment Act (EA), and the Child Development Co-S avings Act (CDCA), if they 
meet a minimum service period of 3 months without a  break in service 1.  These leave 
benefits are, annual leave, sick leave, maternity l eave, paternity leave, adoption leave, 
childcare and extended childcare leave (see Annex f or more details). 
 
6.  However, some term contract employees who have been  working for the same 
employer for a long time do not get to enjoy these leave benefits, as they are on 
separate contracts that are each shorter than the m inimum service period of 3 months, 
and renewed with a break in between the contracts. 
 
7.  Employers are encouraged to grant such term contrac t employees leave 
benefits accordingly:   
 
(a)  For contracts of 14 days or more , employers are encouraged to treat 
contracts renewed within one month  of the previous contract as 
continuous 2, and grant or accrue leave benefits based on the c umulative 
term of the contracts . This means that if the cumulative term of the 
contracts exceeds the respective qualifying period as spelt out in the EA 
and CDCA, employers are encouraged to provide the r elevant leave 
benefits to term contract workers.  
 
(b)  Employers could prorate annual leave, sick leave an d child-care leave 
benefits based on the length of the term contract.  Details on eligibility 
and proration rules can be found at 
http://www.mom.gov.sg/employment-practices/leave/an nual-leave  
 
 
                                                           
1 Term contract employees would need to satisfy the other eligibility criteria to qualify for the 
relevant leave benefits under the respective Acts.  
2 Breaks between contracts will not be counted as se rvice.    
3 
  
In the above example, during the 4 th  one month contract where the employee has 
completed 3 months of service with company X, he wi ll be entitled to: 
 
- 2 days of paid annual leave (pro-rated based on /g3119
/g3117/g3118 ×/g2875) 
- 5 days of paid sick leave (non-hospitalisation leav e); or if hospitalisation is 
necessary, the lesser of the following:  (i) 15 day s of hospitalisation leave; (ii) 
the aggregate of 5 days plus the number of days on which he is hospitalised 
- 2 days of paid childcare leave 
 
B. Notifying in advance of intention not to renew c ontracts  
 
8.  For work arrangements that involve term contracts o n a recurrent basis (i.e. 
contracts are renewed multiple times), it is good p ractice for both employer and 
employee to give sufficient notice 3 before the contract’s expiry on whether either 
                                                           
3 The notice period that employers should give may be  the same as the notice period required for 
early contract termination as mutually agreed, or i n the absence of such an agreement, should be 
not less than: 
a.  one day’s notice if his cumulative employment is le ss than 26 weeks; 1 month  1 month  1 month  1 month     1 day  1 week  3 days  
Employee accumulates 3 months of service 
here, since each break is < 1 month  Company X is 
encouraged to give the 
relevant leave benefits 
once the employee has 
completed three months 
of service  Illustration 
An employee is employed by company X as follows –  
Term contract 
length  Break  Legend  Length of 
contracts > 14 days  
   
4 
 party wishes to renew the contract. This will allow  sufficient time for either party to 
make alternative arrangements.  
 
Annex 
Summary of Leave Schemes in the EA and CDCA 
 
S/N Leave Scheme Length of leave 
1 Annual leave* Start with 7 days per year for firs t year of 
employment.  Increases by 1 day per year of 
service thereafter, capped at 14 days per year.  
 
2 Sick leave* a)  14 days per year of non-hospitalisation 
leave; or  
 
b)  if hospitalisation is necessary, the lesser of 
the following: 
 
i.  60 days of hospitalisation leave per 
year; 
ii.  the aggregate of 14 days plus the 
number of days on which he is 
hospitalised per year. 
3 Maternity leave  Under the EA, 12 weeks per child birth. 
Under the CDCA, 16 weeks per child birth. 
4 Paternity leave 2 weeks per child birth 
5 Adoption leave 12 weeks per child adopted 
 
6 Childcare and 
Extended 
Childcare 
leave* Under the EA, 2 days per year for parents who 
have children under the age of 7 
 
                                                           
b.  one week’s notice if his cumulative employment is 2 6 weeks or more but less than 2 years; 
c.  2 weeks’ notice if his cumulative employment is 2 y ears or more but less than 5 years; and 
d.  4 weeks’ notice if his cumulative employment is 5 y ears or more  
5 
 Under the CDCA, 6 days per year for parents 
who have children under the age of 7, and 2 days 
for parents who have children between age of 7 
– 12.  Total number of childcare leave per year 
per parent is capped at 6 days.  
 
*For term contract employees with cumulative term b etween 3 months and 1 year, 
employers could prorate annual leave, sick leave an d child-care leave benefits based 
on the length of the term contract.  
  