http://www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/services-forms/passes/wp_appln_for_nts_workers.pdf
 
 
WPMS  
001 
 1 Work Pass Division  
18 Havelock Road  
Singapore 059764  
www.mom.gov.sg  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Application for Prior Approval (PA)  
 
A company that wishes to employ NTS workers (i.e.  from Thailand, Philippines, India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Myanmar) 
for the activities mentioned above has to submit the following documents to the Work Pass Division:  
 
(a) A completed PA application form duly signed by the sole -proprietor/partner of the bu siness firm or a director whose  
name appears in the Accounting and Corporate Regulating Authority (ACRA) Instant Information Busine ss Profile print -
out of the company . 
 
(b)   The supporting Town Council has to  endorse on the PA application form.  
 
(c) A new or existing company with multiple activities should submit these additional documents . 
 
(i) A clear photocopy of the company’s latest Instant Information Business Profile printout from the ACRA indicating  
the company’s principal business activities; and  
 
(ii) If the company has registered with the ACRA for less than 6 months and does not have a Central Provident  
Fund (CPF) account, please approach the CPF Board to open a new employer CPF account. The company should 
contribute CPF for the local employees for at least 1 month before it makes a PA application. Please submit a clear 
copy of CPF Contribution Statement (CPF Form 90) together with all the above -mentioned documents to the Work 
Pass Division.  
 
(d) (For existing workers in Singapore) written agreement from the current employer .  
 
2  How to submit  Prior Approval application  
 
Please submit the completed PA application form and the  required  documents online:   
www.mom.gov.sg/apply -pa-conservancy . 
 
3  Processing time 
 
Generally, all PA applications shall be processed within 14 working days after we received them with all the documents in 
order.  The outcome of the application will be mailed to the company.  
 
4  Application for Work Permit  
 
After the PA has been approved and issued, the company has to submit a new Work Permit application for each NTS 
worker:  
 
• via Work Permit eService  (WP eService ), if you are a subscribed user  
• through an Employment Agency who is a WP  eService  user  
Time for application for Work Permit  
It takes around 1 week to process the application.  
 
Please note that the NTS worker must  not be in Singapore at the time of Work Permit application. The worker is only allowed 
to enter Singapore after the Work Pass Division gives an In -Principle Approval and after the employer executes a Security 
Bond.  
 
 
 
Incomplete application forms or omission of the required documents might cause delay in processing.  
 Guideline  for Prior Approval (PA) to Recruit Non -Traditional  
Source (NTS) Workers  for Conservancy Schemes    
 
This information  is updated on 13 Oct  2024  
WPMS  
 
WPMS  
001 
 2  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W 
 
 
 
Section A: Particulars of  the Company  
 
CPF Submission No.:            -    -   
 
Name of company/firm:   
Address of company/firm:   
                     
Postal code   
Contact number:                     Fax number:   
  
Workers applying for: (Please fill up the table below)   
Sex Citizenship  Number of workers who are 
overseas  Number of workers who are in 
Singapore*  
Male     
    
    
    
 
* If the worker  is in Singapore, please provide us with : 
• The worker’s details  (i.e. name, FIN and Work Permit number)  
• Written agreement from the current  employer.  
 
 
Section B: Support from Town Council  
 
Part 1: To be completed by the company  
 
I understand that the approval of my PA is based on the recommendation of the Town Council. However, if the Town Council 
does not have sufficient quota to support my NTS workers, my application will be rejected.  
 
Name of Town Council:   
 
 
 
Part 2: To be completed by the Town Council  
 
I,                                                                                               (name)  of the above -named Town Council, have checked  
and verified the information provided to us by the above company and I confirm that this contractor is eligible to apply  
for NTS workers under the NTS scheme. I support this contractor in the application for    (number) NTS workers.  
 
 
 
 
Designation   Signature   Date   
Application for Prior Approval (PA) to Recruit Non -Traditional 
Source (NTS) Workers for Conservancy Scheme  
 
 
 This form may take you 10 minutes to fill in.  
You will need the following information to fill in the form:  
▪ The company’s CPF Submission No.  
▪ The number and nationality of workers   
Work Pass Division  
18 Havelock Road  
Singapore 059764  
www.mom.gov.sg   
 
WPMS  
001 
 3 Application for Prior Approval (PA) to Recruit Non -Traditional Source (NTS) Workers for Conservancy  Scheme  
 
  
Section C: Declaration  
 
I,           (name),  holder of NRIC:               , 
am the             (designation) of the business firm/company. I confirm the  
information and documents, which I have submitted and enclosed with this application, are true and correct.  
I understand that the Work Pass Division may verify the information and documents with any government agencies or  
with any individual or companies. I am fully aware that if I make any false statements or produce any false documents  
for this application, I shall be guilty of an offence and I am liable to be prosecuted by the Government of Singapore.  
In addition, the Work Permits of my company’s foreign workers shall be revoked and our eligibility for future Work  
Permit applications shall be denied.  
 
 
 
 
 
    Signature                                                                                                         Date  
    
 
 
 
 
This form is updated 13 Oct 2024  