https://www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/about-us/mom70/mom-70th-anniversary-book.pdf
PUBLISHED BY
Ministry of Manpower, Singapore,
18 Havelock Road, Singapore 059764
CHARTING OUR PATH: 70 Years of Working Together and Lessons for Tomorrow
Copyright © 2025 by the Ministry of Manpower, Singapore
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a 
retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, 
photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the 
Ministry of Manpower. 
ISBN: 978-981-94-2143-5 [Paperback]
ISBN: 978-981-94-2144-2 [Hardback]
EDITORIAL TEAM
The Nutgraf
Editor: Aaron Low
Co-Editor: Sue-Ann Chia
Content Lead and Writer: Toh Wen Li
Writers: Puah Rui Xian, Matthew Gan, Grace Ng
Project Manager: Benjamin Lee
Ministry of Manpower 
Lead: Chew Ee Tien
Members: Cecilia Kam, Denny Dunsford, Dionne Huang, Divya Ramchand,  
Faizah Mohd Yasin, Janie Chia, Keith Yong, Koh Ting Yew, Kwek Geng Hao,  
Lin Muhong, Low Shiyi, Natasha Zaperi, Tan Min Yi, Tan Si Min, Thanoosh Ravi
DESIGN
formul8
Project team: Aanya Agarwal, Sandeep Arya, Fiona Bartholomeusz
Design team: Shing Cham, Clayton Wibowo, Cre Zhou
PHOTOGRAPHY  
Photographs are courtesy of the Ministry of Manpower, unless otherwise stated  
in the caption. They may not be used without the written permission of the owners.
National Library Board, Singapore Cataloguing in Publication Data
Name(s): Low, Aaron, 1980- editor. | Chia, Sue-Ann, editor. | Singapore. Ministry 
of Manpower, publisher.
Title: Charting our path : 70 years of working together and lessons for tomorrow / editor, 
Aaron Low, co-editor, Sue-Ann Chia.
Description: Singapore : Ministry of Manpower, [2025]
Identifier(s): ISBN 978-981-94-2143-5 (paperback) | 978-981-94-2144-2 (hardback)
Subject(s): LCSH: Manpower--Singapore--History. | Manpower policy--Singapore--
History.
Classification: DDC 331.11095957--dc23
Printed in Singapore, 2025.To all MOMers and partners who have contributed to our 
journey as we continue to chart our path forward together.CONTENTS
Foreword Mr Lee Hsien Loong
Senior Ministerix
Opening 
MessagesDr Tan See Leng
Minister for Manpower xiii
Mr Ng Chee Khern
Permanent Secretary
(Manpower) xvii
Era 2
Industrialisation
and BeyondChapter 3
Building a Productive Workforce45
Chapter 4
Wage Woes: Embarking on Reform56
Spotlight 2
Managing an Ageing Workforce68Era 1
The Early
Years03
14Chapter 1
From Confrontation…
Chapter 2
…To Collaboration
Spotlight 1
Tripartism: Singapore’s Secret 
Weapon for Industrial Peace27Era 3
Developing a 
Skilled CapitalChapter 5
Blueprint for a  
Future-Ready Singapore91
Chapter 6
Developing a Globally  
Competitive Workforce105
Spotlight 3
Service From the ‘HEART’114
Era 4
Through the
CrisesChapter 7
Down But Not Out
Chapter 8
Championing Lifelong Learning 
in the Workforce
Spotlight 4
Workplace Safety and Health127
144
155
Photos 171
Productive 
and Inclusive 
GrowthChapter 9
Towards a  
Manpower-Lean Economy197
Chapter 10
No One Left Behind: Helping 
Lower-Wage Workers210
Spotlight 5
A Wage and Skills Ladder220Era 5Era 7
Pro-Growth, 
Pro-Worker, 
Pro-Singapore277 Chapter 13
Developing a Complementary 
Foreign Workforce
Chapter 14
Empowering Workers  
Through Career Health288
Chapter 15
Fair and Progressive Workplaces298
Chapter 16
Charting the Path Ahead311
Acknowledgements 319
337 Notes
Index 372Era 6
Managing 
Our Migrant 
Workforce231 Chapter 11  
Migrant Worker Management
Chapter 12
Migrant Domestic Workforce243
254 Spotlight 6
The COVID-19 PandemicFOREWORD
Mr Lee Hsien Loong
Senior Minister
Every Government seeks to prosper its people. To succeed, their economies 
must grow. Singapore has relied on the free market and private enterprise 
to generate growth. But the Government plays an important role, setting 
the framework and creating conditions for growth. For its part, the Ministry 
of Manpower (MOM) manages and develops the nation’s human resources 
and ensures that the labour market works well. In so doing, it maximises the 
potential of our workforce, and enables businesses to grow and produce good 
social outcomes for Singaporeans.
In the early years post-independence, Singapore experienced severe 
unemployment. The problem became even more urgent in 1968, when the 
British announced their intention to bring forward their troop withdrawal to 
1971. Labour-management relations between unions and employers were then 
confrontational and dysfunctional. We urgently needed to break this mould,  
and build a new framework that would support economic growth.
In 1968, Mr S. Rajaratnam, as the Minister for Labour, moved the Employment 
Bill and Industrial Relations (Amendment) Bill in Parliament. He exhorted 
unions to work together with the Government and employers in Singapore’s 
long-term interests. The next year, the National Trades Union Congress 
(NTUC) held its Modernization Seminar. These strategic moves transformed 
the role of labour unions in our industrialising economy, and laid the basis for 
tripartism. The result has been decades of harmonious labour-management 
relations, a conducive business environment, and prosperity for all.
ixAs time passed, MOM’s work broadened. It championed skills upgrading and 
lifelong learning, so that workers could keep up with changing employment 
demands and stay competitive. It designed and improved social safety nets, 
especially the Central Provident Fund (CPF), so that workers would stay 
resilient in setbacks and enjoy financial security in retirement. It managed 
the inflow of migrant workers and professionals to augment and complement 
Singaporean workers. It uplifted lower-income workers through Workfare  
and Progressive Wages. It watched vigilantly over the safety, health, and  
well-being of workers, and championed fair and progressive workplaces.
During COVID-19, MOM played an important role in our crisis response.  
It ensured that workers kept their jobs and continued being paid. It looked  
after their health and welfare, including the migrant workers in dormitories.  
It also guided companies to adjust workplace practices to operate their 
businesses safely.
MOM’s efforts have dramatically improved workers’ lives and the quality of 
our workplaces. Good jobs have been created, wages have risen across the 
board, skill and competency levels have gone up, and worker safety and  
well-being have improved. Hiring practices have become more inclusive,  
work arrangements more flexible, and businesses better supported to 
transform their workforce to meet new demands. All this while keeping our 
economy lean and competitive, minimising the regulatory and administrative 
burden on companies, and striving for service excellence in supporting 
businesses and workers. MOM has done well.
Looking ahead, MOM has a full agenda. With people living longer and staying 
healthier, older workers need to continue working and stay productively 
engaged for longer. With local workforce growth slowing, we need to top 
up our numbers and talent with a controlled inflow of workers from abroad, 
while managing the social impact. As new technologies and industries emerge and foreign competition intensifies, we must ensure that our workers remain 
skilled, disciplined, adaptable, and ultimately, competitive.
I have every confidence that MOM will rise to the challenges and support 
Singaporeans to continue adapting and thriving, just as it has done these past 
seven decades.
Congratulations to MOM on your 70th anniversary. I look forward to your 
contributions to the nation’s progress and prosperity for many years to come.
Mr Lee Hsien Loong 
Senior Minister
Singapore, April 2025
xi xOPENING MESSAGE
Dr Tan See Leng
Minister for Manpower 
I was born the year before Singapore became independent and like many  
of that generation, I experienced our extraordinary leap from Third World to 
First. Back in the 1960s, labour disputes were common and gravely disrupted the 
economic development of our fledgling nation. Today, Singapore stands  
as a vibrant and resilient economy, built on the bedrock of harmonious  
labour relations.
Our lives have become better in so many ways. As both a social and economic 
Ministry, MOM has played a vital role in driving progress on both fronts. 
Through effective policy shifts over the years, MOM has journeyed alongside 
Singaporeans to better lives through improved jobs and career opportunities. 
The impact is evident in the rising incomes, consistently low unemployment, 
increasing skills attainment, safer and more progressive workplaces, and 
enhanced retirement adequacy. MOM is proud to have played its part in  
uplifting Singaporeans.
MOM’s journey thus far has given us a wealth of stories from which future 
workers and leaders can learn and draw confidence. In particular, this book 
distils three key lessons for MOM as we chart our path ahead.
First, united we stand, divided we fall. It was the cumulative effort of the tripartite 
partners – the Ministry of Manpower, the National Trades Union Congress, and  
the Singapore National Employers Federation – that carried us through 
Singapore’s most challenging times. The difficult trade-offs made during 
each economic crisis since the 1970s were based on mutual trust and a shared 
commitment to act in Singapore’s best interests. Tripartism must remain the 
anchor of MOM’s work.
xiiiSecond, we must innovate to progress. Tackling challenges creatively has been 
central to MOM’s approach. There are many examples in this book, such as the 
National Wages Council, Re-employment, and the Progressive Wage Model, 
which are uniquely “made in Singapore” solutions that have worked well in our 
local context.
Third, it is crucial that we plan for the long term. Our society and the labour 
market are constantly evolving, often presenting complex challenges with no 
quick or simple solutions. I am heartened that MOM is taking deliberate steps 
to extend the planning horizon for policies, and empowering Singaporeans to 
navigate future shifts in the job market through the Career Health SG initiative 
and a supportive ecosystem.
The milestones detailed in this book are a testament to the dedication of all 
MOMers who, often without fanfare, went above and beyond to help businesses 
and workers thrive together. They also reflect the solidarity of Singapore 
businesses that shared success with their workers, and the tenacity of workers 
who embraced growth as the world of work evolved.
As MOM celebrates its 70th anniversary, we look forward to continuing the 
journey with our tripartite partners, empowering our workforce and ensuring 
thriving workplaces in Singapore for generations to come.
Dr Tan See Leng
Minister for Manpower
Singapore, April 2025
xivOPENING MESSAGE  
Mr Ng Chee Khern
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)
This book commemorates MOM’s 70th anniversary, beginning with its origins 
as the Ministry of Labour and Welfare in 1955. The book is an ambitious project 
to capture MOM’s significant contributions to the transformation of our 
workforce, businesses, and economy, drawing on document research as well 
as the knowledge of past and present MOM and tripartite leaders and staff 
through in-depth interviews with them.
As both an economic and social Ministry, the scope of MOM’s work is 
necessarily wide. In pursuit of the mission to provide Singaporeans with better 
income and living standards through better jobs, generations of MOMers 
worked tirelessly with their counterparts across the Government: MOMers 
worked with the Ministry of Trade and Industry and economic agencies to 
generate good jobs and transform enterprises. They also worked with the 
Ministry of Education to upskill and reskill our workers and help them take 
on the new jobs created, ensuring that our businesses can access the talent 
pools and workforce they need to grow. The milestones achieved by MOMers 
illuminate the pages of this book.
It is not a small feat to navigate the trade-offs between the social and economic 
dimensions to decide on the right path across the range of issues we manage. 
Good economic growth does not automatically translate into good jobs for all 
Singaporeans. That is why it is critical for MOM to work with NTUC and SNEF 
to ensure this. We work with NTUC to ensure that businesses have the talent 
and workforce to grow and create good jobs, and we work with SNEF to make 
xviixix xviiisure that such growth is inclusive. This is how we strike the balance between 
the social and economic outcomes we need.
Our predecessors held a set of strong core values. First of all, they were  
driven by an ambition to do the very best for Singapore. They made decisive  
long-term moves ahead of each major turn in our operating environment.  
This book describes how MOMers created a new framework to achieve 
industrial peace amid the instability of the pre-independence years, rapidly 
prepared workers and businesses for the demands of export-oriented 
industrialisation after independence, and again years later as Singapore 
embraced the Internet age. They dared to go beyond conventional wisdom in 
their policies and programmes to build a globally competitive workforce that 
still showed care for those who needed it. Today, Singapore leads the way 
internationally in many areas such as talent competitiveness and workplace 
safety, which is a credit to the ambition and drive displayed by MOMers  
over the years.
They were also anchored by teamwork and togetherness in their journey. 
Much of what MOM achieved could not have been done within department 
silos or even with the full weight of the Ministry. Our predecessors continually 
brought people together across the Government, unions, and businesses, 
leveraging their strengths to solve the most challenging issues. This book 
reminds us, for example, about the close teamwork and coordination that was 
critical in our response to every major economic crisis – rapidly implementing 
large-scale initiatives which saved jobs and raised skills and capabilities to 
support the country’s recovery.
This book was written for all MOMers, helping us to remember and learn 
from our past steps and the values that have guided us for the past 70 years. 
It should also serve as a source of inspiration as we chart our own path in a 
new operating landscape. Producing it was an endeavour that continues a 
long legacy of investing in growing our people so that each new generation of 
MOMers can make a greater impact towards our mission to serve Singapore.On MOM’s 70th anniversary, we celebrate our people, progress, and potential. 
Generations of MOMers, and partners across the Government, unions, and 
businesses journeyed together to build the great workforce and workplaces 
that we have today. While we reflect on our past, we look ahead to a hopeful, 
promising future. We refreshed our mission and vision this year to ensure 
we stay focused in serving Singapore and Singaporeans. Our vision of an 
empowered workforce and thriving workplaces for Singapore will drive us 
to equip our workforce with the skills and knowledge to take charge of their 
careers, and build workplaces that make workers feel safe, valued,  
and motivated.
Here’s to MOM70 – to our past, our present, and an exciting future.
Mr Ng Chee Khern
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)
Singapore, April 2025 
MOM is both an economic and a social ministry. It supports the objectives of securing 
good economic growth and social progress for Singaporeans.
The essential nature of its work is finding a balance between economic and social 
outcomes, and creating the mechanisms to translate economic growth into better jobs, 
fulfilling careers and a secure retirement for Singaporeans.
The chapters of this book illuminate these efforts.Era 1
The Early
Years3Chapter 1: From Confrontation…
A t about 9pm on May 12, 1955, some 2,000 workers and students swarmed 
the Hock Lee bus company at Alexandra Road. Their intention: conduct 
a mass strike against the company after months of growing conflict between 
management and workers. But the protesters ended up becoming rioters, 
overturning cars, burning vehicles, and attacking both police and bystanders 
indiscriminately. By the time the riot was over six hours later, some 31 
people were injured and four were killed. It was, as Straits Times journalist  
Mr Sit Yin Fong reported, the night that Singapore went mad.1
The Hock Lee Bus riot that happened on what is now termed a Black Thursday 
was the nadir of a turbulent and troubled period of civil unrest in Singapore’s 
history. It stands out in Singapore’s development journey not just because of its 
tragedy that unfolded, but also because it was a microcosm of the underlying 
tensions of that period – encapsulating the clash of colonial, political, economic, 
and grassroots interests. Strikes were prevalent in the 1950s, but 1955 marked 
the peak of such strife – some 275 incidents were reported, with over 940,000 
man-days lost, compared to 12 strikes in the preceding two years.2Chapter 1
From  
Confrontation…4 5
Charting Our Pathencouraged by the British Labour Government which held power from 1945 to 
1951 and supported the development of trade unions in its colonies.
Singapore’s first Trade Union was registered in 1946, while Trade Union Advisor 
posts were created within the Labour Department in Singapore to advise 
workers on how to organise themselves and engage in collective bargaining.5 
Hundreds of trade unions were formed rapidly as workers banded together to 
fight for their interests.
Inevitably, strikes began almost immediately with the first in January 1946. 
“It was supported by over 170,000 workers, and for the remainder of the year, 
Singapore was hit by repeated strike waves as its factory and transport workers, 
municipal employees, and itinerant traders became increasingly militant,” 
wrote Dr Michael Stenson.6 In 1946 alone, some 845,600 man-days were lost 
due to strikes and lockouts organised by trade unions.7
The colonial Government acknowledged that some of these demands for 
better wages and conditions were justified. But it was also clear that strikes 
had a political motivation behind them, either to “build up the Opposition in 
the Legislative Assembly” or due to renewed activity from the communists.8 
While the British focused on the Malayan Communist Party (MCP) as one of the 
primary instigators of the strikes, they were slower to detect that the unrest was 
also motivated by decolonisation supporters, who were gaining traction within 
the labour movement.9
By the late 1940s, the British, fearing the spread of communism, began to 
impose restrictions on civil society meetings. The British used such rules to 
control trade unions and strikes during the State of Emergency called between 
1948 and 1960. This brought a temporary respite initially to industrial strife10, 
but demographic changes upended the truce.Chapter 1: From Confrontation…
It was against this backdrop that the Ministry of Labour and Welfare (MOLW) 
was created in the same year of 1955, after Singapore held its landmark 
legislative assembly where most legislators were elected rather than appointed 
by the British authorities. The MOLW was one of six ministries created 
under the Rendel Constitution that was intended as an interim step towards  
self-government for the former British colony.3 Previously, labour matters 
were under the purview of the Labour Department.4 The new Ministry, helmed 
by trade unionist and politician Mr Lim Yew Hock, was tasked to establish 
industrial peace, a prerequisite to social and economic progress. And there was 
much to do.
Apart from negotiating with trade unions, the Ministry had to rework and 
introduce new legislation that provided for dispute resolution mechanisms to 
quell labour unrest and create favourable investment conditions in Singapore. 
This included the formation of the Industrial Arbitration Court (IAC) in 1960, 
the amendment to the Trade Unions Act in 1965 to regulate union activities,  
the Employment Act in 1968 to give clarity on workers’ terms of employment, 
and the Industrial Relations (Amendment) Act of 1968 to offer greater stability 
in employer and union relations.
These groundbreaking legislative changes would contribute to a significant 
shift in improving working relationships between trade unions and employers 
– from one of confrontation to collaboration. This in turn enabled the Ministry 
to whittle down strikes to just 38 by 1964, and virtually none by the 1980s.
Industrial Turbulence in Post-World War II
The rise of an organised labour movement in Singapore and the push for 
decolonisation coincided to escalate labour tensions in the aftermath of World 
War II. In the late 1940s, Singapore’s labour movement grew in strength, 6 7
Charting Our Pathfrustrations perhaps instigated the students to view an alliance with the bus 
workers as a way to agitate for change.
A few weeks into the strike, the clashes between the workers and the police 
intensified. On May 11, police used high-pressure water jets to disperse the 
crowds.16 This further triggered demonstrators, whose sentiments were already 
running high ahead of the one-year anniversary of a violent protest on May 13, 
1954. The next day, violence and mayhem exploded, as the strike “clearly turned 
from a labour dispute, in which legitimate grievances had been involved, into 
a full-out riot whipped up by political agitators”, wrote American Universities 
Field Staff reporter A. Doak Barnett.17 A 16 year-old student and a volunteer 
constable were among the four who died in the violence that ensued.
Mr Lim Yew Hock, who became Singapore’s first Minister for Labour and 
Welfare on April 6, 1955 right before the Hock Lee Bus strikes and riot broke out, 
would grapple with chaotic labour relations during his one year in office. A few 
months later, bus workers of the Singapore Traction Company also carried out a 
strike that became known as the “Great STC Strike” lasting 142 days.18
A Plan for Industrial Peace with Justice
The Hock Lee Bus riots and Great STC Strike informed the legislative changes to 
come. During Mr Lim Yew Hock’s term in office, the MOLW set out to address 
the inadequacies of the existing industrial dispute resolution mechanism and 
the lack of an arbitration court, which contributed to the failed negotiations 
preceding the riot.
Between 1957 and 1959, MOLW moved to enact several pieces of legislation 
including the Factories Ordinance in 1958, which addressed the safety of 
factory workers, as well as the Amendment of Trade Unions Ordinance in 1959  Chapter 1: From Confrontation…
A fast-growing population after the war exacerbated the low wages and cost 
of living hardships faced by workers. Singapore’s population grew rapidly in 
the post-war years from about 938,100 people in 194711 to over 1.4 million by 
1957.12 The population increase created a growing unemployment problem in 
Singapore, as there were insufficient jobs created by the economy.
In 1950, the state-run Employment Exchange had some 15,200 new registrants 
looking for work.13 By 1959, the number had more than doubled to over 36,700 – 
about eight times the 4,600 job vacancies available.14 The youth were the most 
affected: two thirds of new job-seekers were below the age of 30, while just a 
quarter of available jobs were suitable for this group.15
The Strikes of 1955
The socio-political and economic grievances that Singapore workers, youths,  
and students faced came to a head during the Hock Lee Bus riot in 1955, a pivotal 
moment in Singapore’s labour history. It began with a strike on April 25 after 
the Hock Lee Amalgamated Bus Company fired union organisers and brought 
in replacement workers from a rival union. This infuriated the workers, who 
picketed the bus depot and disrupted bus services. Their numbers were bolstered 
by supporters and students. Many of them were members of the Singapore 
Chinese Middle School Student Union, who viewed the striking bus workers’ 
labour negotiations as a reflection of their own struggles to secure their future.
There were also other motivating factors at play. The students were incensed 
by the British Government’s reluctance to help or compensate victims of  
World War II, as well as disruptions to their education due to long delays in 
implementing high school exams and the National Service Ordinance Act 
that came into effect in 1954, requiring the registration of all male population 
between the ages of 18 and 20 for part-time military training. These pent-up 8 9
Charting Our PathManaging the militant unions, edged on by communist elements in the country, 
was key to this. Persuading large companies to invest in Singapore would 
otherwise be immensely difficult. Dr Albert Winsemius, a Dutch economist who 
visited Singapore several times in the 1960s and 1970s under the United Nations 
Technical Assistance Programme, also stressed the importance of suppressing 
the communists. He said in a speech: “Their (the communists’) goal was as little 
economic development as possible, in order to foment unrest and dissension; 
thus creating the basis for seizing power…It was evident that no entrepreneur 
would invest his money in a country disorganised to such an extent.”21
In June 1959, the PAP swept to power and Singapore attained full internal  
self-government. The MOLW’s name was changed to the “Ministry of Labour and 
Law”, due to the convention of naming ministries according to the portfolios its 
minister was to cover. In this case, the Minister for Labour and Law Mr Kenneth 
Michael Byrne would oversee both labour and law in Singapore. One of the first 
things that Mr K. M. Byrne did when he was appointed Minister for Labour and 
Law was to shift his office from the second to the ground floor to be near to 
the people.25 This move underlined his commitment to addressing workers’ 
concerns. He also erected large signboards in prominent locations outside the 
ministry building, stating that union officials could have direct access to him 
in the office. In 1961, the Ministry’s name was changed to “Ministry of Labour”, 
reflecting its strong focus on labour issues.
With the PAP firmly in control of the Government, MOL went about its task 
of introducing and amending existing legislation to achieve founding Prime 
Minister Mr Lee Kuan Yew’s vision of industrial peace with justice. Just a year 
after the new Government was installed, Mr K. M. Bryne introduced a new bill to 
unify the fragmented unions. Called the Industrial Relations Ordinance, it was 
enacted to regulate relations and disputes between employers and employees 
through three levels: collective bargaining, conciliation with the aid of 
government officers, and arbitration, when an agreement could not be reached. Chapter 1: From Confrontation…
(see Chapter 2). The MOLW would continue to operate under changing political 
leadership, as labour issues continued to top the agenda championed by political 
parties, including the People’s Action Party (PAP) which came to power in 1959.
A few months before winning the 1959 general election, then-PAP Secretary-
General Mr Lee Kuan Yew unveiled a vision for “industrial peace with justice”. 
At a mass rally in Geylang Serai on March 1, he promised that an elected PAP 
would be “a government on the workers’ side”. It would seek to balance workers’ 
interests with that of all Singaporeans, by ensuring that the economy can grow 
unhindered by industrial strife.
“Industrial peace alone, brought about by enforcing law and order, is unjust 
to the workers, particularly where some of the laws are not in favour of the 
workers,” said Mr Lee Kuan Yew who had acted as legal advisor to many unions 
including the Singapore Bus Workers Union involved in the Hock Lee Bus riot.19 
“But at the same time, we must all remember that if we seek industrial justice 
with a vengeance, there will be no industrial peace. And a chronic state of 
industrial unrest means wrecking the economy.”
While workers pointed to economic and work grievances as reasons to strike, 
their actions affected their ability to secure their longer term interests if the 
strikes affected Singapore’s economic future. Intensifying industrial unrest 
would deter much-needed corporate investment and thus stifle job creation 
that the country desperately needed. Unemployment was running into the 
double digits in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
PAP founding member Dr Goh Keng Swee, who is known as the architect of 
Singapore’s modern economy, identified youth unemployment as a critical 
issue that the new Government would have to address urgently. Not doing so 
would result in widespread discontent and social unrest, he wrote in the party’s 
election manifesto.2010 11
Charting Our Pathblow to the newly independent country. At the time, the British military was 
estimated to have contributed up to 20 per cent of Singapore’s economy, while 
some 25,000 people were working in the British bases.25
By this time, the Singapore Government had switched to an export-oriented 
industrialisation strategy, having abandoned the previous approach of 
import-substitution because of the collapse of the merger with Malaysia. The 
Government also knew that it had to attract foreign investments into the country. 
The crisis forced its hand and the Government moved quickly to strengthen the 
legal framework for industrial harmony. In 1968, two groundbreaking pieces of 
legislation were introduced.
The Industrial Relations (Amendment) Act re-calibrated managerial power to 
management to decide on issues relating to recruitment, promotion, transfer, 
assignment of duty, termination of employment, and retrenchments. In the 
1950s, managers were less involved in these functions due to aggressive unions 
who demanded more say. The new legislation encouraged trade unions to 
shift away from a confrontational stance to a more cooperative approach with 
management, laying the foundations for tripartism – the secret to Singapore’s 
industrial success.
In introducing the Bill, then-Minister for Labour Mr S. Rajaratnam noted 
that 57 per cent of strikes and disputes in the early 1960s were the result of 
misunderstanding between workers and management about management 
rights. The Bill, he argued, provided a clear relationship between management 
and worker, which would in turn promote stronger industries. He also urged 
both unionists and employers to put aside their narrow interests and work 
towards a situation in which both parties could benefit.Chapter 1: From Confrontation…
In passing the law, Mr K. M. Byrne described the bill as an attempt to “substitute 
the rule of law for the law of the jungle in industrial relations”.22
The Ordinance, which was later replaced with the Industrial Relations Act, not 
only sought to ensure that workers received the fair share of their fruits of labour, 
but also explicitly, to establish conditions conducive to industrial expansion.23 
It also represented Singapore’s first major legislative departure from the British 
system of industrial relations.
With the successful passage of the Industrial Relations Ordinance, the IAC 
was established in 1960. The IAC served as a neutral, non-political body to 
expeditiously settle industrial matters concerning employer-employee relations. 
Strikes were deemed illegal once the IAC had taken cognisance of the industrial 
dispute for arbitration. The IAC was therefore entrusted with balancing the 
Ordinance’s dual objectives in how it arbitrated and handed out its awards. 
Mr Charles Gamba, who had served as the sole arbitrator in the aftermath of 
the Hock Lee riot, was appointed the first IAC president and he served until 
1964. In one of the IAC’s most prominent cases, it ordered the Port of Singapore 
Authority to pay S$4 million in wages owed to some 11,500 port workers in 
1966, based on a collective agreement that was signed the previous year.24 
Post-independence Transition
Singapore’s separation from Malaysia in 1965 marked a key turning point in 
labour relations.
The task of securing industrial harmony to support Singapore’s fledgling 
economy was made more urgent by the sudden announcement on July 18, 1967 
that the British military was going to leave Singapore in the mid-1970s. The 
withdrawal was subsequently brought forward to 1971. This dealt a massive 12 13
Charting Our Path“Somebody has said that there are two kinds of people – there are the rabbits 
who, when cornered, die easily and there are the cats who will scratch and claw 
their way out. I think we are cats and this Bill will give us the claws and the 
strength to fight our way out of the coming difficulties in the seventies.”
With the legislative framework established to address labour issues, the next 
task for the young Government was to tackle the troubling issue of militant trade 
unionism – a mission that required both claws and strength in equal measure.Chapter 1: From Confrontation…
“One of the main objectives of the Industrial Relations (Amendment) Bill, as 
with the Employment Act, is to resolve serious and real problems of economic 
expansion, new investments, increased productivity,” he said. “And the 
overriding test to which we submit any legislation is, will it help to bring 
about these objectives – economic expansion, new investments, increased 
productivity? If it can or if it gives a reasonable assurance that it can, then 
the legislation must override the sectional interests, whether of employers or 
workers or any other groups.”26
Similarly, the Employment Act, which came into effect on August 15, 1968, was 
a crucial piece of legislation for the new PAP Government. It outlined basic 
employment terms and conditions for employment in Singapore in a single 
document for the first time. This consolidated earlier labour laws such as the 
Shop Assistants’ Employment Ordinance of 1957 and the Clerks’ Employment 
Ordinance of 1957. This key piece of legislation was also introduced by the 
Government in consultation with the unions and employers’ associations.
In addition to re-enacting existing legislation, the Employment Act featured 
several important new provisions, including a standard work week of 44 hours 
for all workers; the number of holidays, rest days, annual leave, and sick leave 
was standardised; the rate of pay for work on holidays was set at double pay, 
among many other clauses.27
In debating the bill in Parliament, Mr S. Rajaratnam said the new Act was meant 
to shape the attitudes of both workers and employers in a post-independence 
Singapore. “Three years do not give us sufficient time but the British have 
decided to make a precipitate withdrawal and there is no use trying to solve 
our problems by sitting down and beating our breasts in despair,” he said  
in Parliament.2814 15
Charting Our PathChapter 2:…To Collaboration
A month after the Industrial Relations Ordinance was passed and the 
Industrial Arbitration Court was set up, then-Minister for Finance Dr Goh 
Keng Swee unveiled a strategic roadmap entitled “The Labour Movement and 
Industrial Expansion”. This paper, published in October 1960, envisioned a 
significant role for organised labour in addressing the industrial turbulence of 
that era and contributing to Singapore’s economic development.
But doing this required more than legislation (see Chapter 1); it meant having 
the Government win the hearts and minds of trade unionists. The Government 
needed to demonstrate to the trade unions that it was on their side and wanted 
to act in their members’ interest, especially in the critical area of industrialising 
Singapore to create more jobs and improve livelihoods. In the paper, Dr Goh 
Keng Swee highlighted the importance of the Government’s collaboration with 
the labour movement to establish industrial peace.
Stable industrial relations, argued Singapore’s economic czar, were critical in 
helping Singapore close the gap with other economies, which were seen by Chapter 2
…To Collaborationmany businesses as more desirable investment destinations given their lack of 
strikes and more competitive wages. To show that its intentions were genuine, 
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) sought feedback and support for this roadmap 
from a key federation of trade unions – the Singapore Trades Union Congress 
(STUC). MOF submitted the paper to the STUC, which, at its peak in 1961, was 
made up of 94 unions including the relatively large left-wing Singapore General 
Employees’ Union.1
In response, the STUC rallied its members to the Government’s call to fulfil 
their share of responsibility in ensuring industrial peace. In a public letter in 
1960, it acknowledged that apart from trade unions, the Government and the 
employers were major participants in the joint effort to improve industrial 
relations.2 The STUC’s groundbreaking statement foreshadowed the rise of 
Singapore’s unique model of tripartism, a key reason for industrial peace which 
was described in 2023 by then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Hsien Loong as one of the 
country’s “national treasures”.3 This was made possible by a seminal shift in 
the trade unions’ attitudes more than six decades ago – from confrontation to 
collaboration with the Government and employers.
The Formation of NTUC
While the legislative changes in the 1960s put pressure on unions to pivot to 
a more orderly resolution of labour disputes, trade unionists’ mindsets had 
to change before the laws could be truly effective. That paradigm shift would 
not emerge until the dust had settled on the internal conflicts within the trade 
union movement. 
In May 1961, a rift opened within the People’s Action Party (PAP) over Malaya’s 
Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman’s proposal to include Singapore in a larger 
federation. Thirteen PAP assemblymen were ousted for their pro-Communist 16 17
Charting Our PathChapter 2:…To Collaboration
views. Two months later, they formed the Barisan Sosialis (Socialist Front) 
and their opposition to the PAP precipitated a split in the STUC as well. At 
the request of STUC’s secretary-general G. Kandasamy, then-Minister for 
Labour and Law Mr K. M. Byrne sought to reorganise the unions without the  
pro-communist elements.4 Subsequently, the STUC was dissolved and two 
rival bodies emerged: the Singapore Association of Trade Unions (SATU), led 
by supporters of the Barisan Sosialis; and the National Trades Union Congress 
(NTUC) which continued to back the PAP.
NTUC, which comprised moderates led by Mr Mahmud Awang and Mr Devan 
Nair, had only 12 unions. In contrast, the pro-Communist SATU garnered the 
support of 82 unions when it applied for registration with the Registrar of 
Trade Unions in August 1961. Following in the footsteps of many trade unions 
responsible for instigating tumultuous labour relations in the 1950s, SATU 
deployed militant tactics to affect change. As a result, the number of strikes 
jumped from 45 in 1960 to 116 strikes in 1961.5
The Government did not tolerate SATU’s violent strategies, which became a 
key reason why many of its member unions were deregistered by the Registrar 
of Trade Unions. There were also reports of flagrant abuse of union funds by 
left-wing union leaders. In response to this, the Trade Unions Ordinance was 
amended in December 1963 to empower the Minister for Labour to intervene 
when there was suspicion of funds being misused or where the unions were to be 
dissolved or deregistered.6 That same year in 1963, the Registrar of Trade Unions 
refused to register SATU on the grounds that it had been used for “unlawful 
purposes” and “purposes inconsistent with its objects and rules”, rendering it 
an illegal association.7 This triggered the collapse of SATU, whose influence had 
already been waning as a growing number of unions and workers defected to 
join the more moderate NTUC.NTUC’s formal registration on 4 January 1964 established it as STUC’s 
replacement in serving as the key federation of trade unions. This also 
inaugurated a new era of industrial relations in Singapore – one where trade 
unions worked closely with the Government to play a constructive role in  
nation-building and economic development after Singapore gained 
independence. The following year was a key milestone, leading to a  
consolidation of union strength under NTUC. In 1965, in the wake of  
Singapore’s separation from Malaysia to become independent, building a 
viable economic future weighed heavily on the minds of political as well as 
union leaders. It was a moment of reckoning for NTUC leaders who recognised 
that internal fighting was counter-productive, and the labour movement 
instead needed to join forces with the Government and employers to generate  
much-needed economic growth and jobs.
By then, NTUC represented most of Singapore’s organised workers with 120,000 
members. But its membership fell to below 90,000 over the next four years as 
Singapore adopted new employment laws to create a more conducive labour 
market for the economy’s development.8
Singapore was on the path to rapidly industrialise by attracting new foreign 
investments that would bring new jobs – and new legislation was part of this 
push to create a more attractive business and labour environment. In particular, 
amendments to the Trade Unions Act were made to address the high incidence 
of industrial disputes caused by matters pertaining to union recognition.
Amid the slew of policies to improve industrial and working conditions in the 
1960s, a steady decline in strikes ensued. In 1961, over 400,000 man-days were 
lost to strikes.9 But after the Employment Act was enacted, fewer than 10,000 
man-days were lost in each year after 1968. Between 1968 and 1971 there were 
only seven strikes compared with 117 strikes in 1961.10 On paper, such statistics 18 19
Charting Our Pathsuggested that industrial relations had significantly improved. But there was 
an undercurrent of disagreement among the unions about how to approach 
relations with the Government and employers.
NTUC, in its role as a representative body of the trade unions, supported the 
Government’s legislative changes and saw them as safeguarding workers’ 
interests. However, many rank-and-file members did not share its views or its 
willingness to engage the Government in more collaborative ways. Some unions 
felt that their ability to bargain for their needs had been curtailed by the new 
labour laws, and that NTUC should take stronger action to pressure employers to 
meet their demands. Members started to leave NTUC in droves. This presented 
NTUC with an existential challenge: with new labour laws diminishing trade 
unions’ previous raison d’être as collective bargaining bodies, what new role 
could they carve out to effectively represent their members’ interests?
Modernisation of the Labour Movement
It was at this critical juncture in November 1969 that NTUC held its “Modernization 
of the Labour Movement” seminar. The four-day event at the Singapore 
Conference Hall in Shenton Way, which drew hundreds of attendees from over 
45 trade unions, sought to address the pressing question of where Singapore’s 
labour movement was headed and what it needed to do to stay relevant in a new 
era of nation-building. 
NTUC’s founding leader Mr C.V. Devan Nair painted a stark picture of trade 
unions’ potential decline into oblivion if they remained static: “The danger of 
an eventual disappearance of organised labour as a significant social force is 
very real. A race has already started for the Labour Movement in Singapore – 
a race between modernisation and extinction.”11 Answers to these existential 
questions were offered by a number of top Cabinet ministers who gave speeches Chapter 2:…To Collaboration
at the seminar, underlining the Government’s active participation in NTUC’s 
efforts to engage its trade union members.
Then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Kuan Yew gave the opening address, titled “The 
Harsh Realities of Today”, in which he issued a wake-up call for workers to 
ignite their “positive urge to work and achieve”.12 In just four years, Singapore 
had “entered a new phase of accelerated growth”, he said, citing an assessment 
by a team from the World Bank. The Bank’s experts had attributed the  
“greater-than-expected success in Singapore’s drive towards industrialisation” 
to factors such as the Employment Act, which made Singapore’s labour market 
more attractive to investors. But while legislation can prohibit and punish 
abuses and malpractices, it is limited in motivating workers to perform, pointed 
out Mr Lee Kuan Yew. “This urge (to achieve) can come only from the conviction 
of a people that they must, and want to give of their best. It is the consciousness 
of our being co-owners of the new society we are creating that provides the 
drive for fulfilment,” he stressed.13
Echoing Mr Lee Kuan Yew’s message, Minister for Labour and Foreign Affairs 
Mr S. Rajaratnam called for trade union leaders to do their part to build up 
Singapore’s economy by going “beyond table-thumping and sloganeering” to 
become “skilled executives to look after the interests of workers”.14 Safeguarding  
national interests “is the responsibility of all of us because if they are not 
preserved, then sectional interests go down with them,” he said. Setting 
out a vision of tripartism, he declared: “I believe that modernisation and 
rapid economic development can be put through in Singapore with the least 
sacrifice and least discomfort if the operation is undertaken as a joint effort 
by Government, entrepreneurs and workers…This means that all three must 
make modernisation and economic development their common objective and 
overriding consideration.”1520 21
Charting Our PathThe landmark 1969 seminar changed the course of Singapore’s labour movement 
and the country’s economic trajectory. It not only laid out “the fundamentals  
of tripartism as voiced by Singapore’s founding fathers”, but also highlighted 
the need for “forging alignment, which is a critical part of tripartism,” as 
former NTUC Secretary-General Mr Lim Boon Heng recalled.16 “We are all in 
the same boat, and we should all row in the same direction,” recounted the  
former Cabinet Minister during a panel discussion at the 2022 launch of the 
Tripartite Collective.
Tripartism, which involves collaboration among the Government, employers 
(represented by the Singapore National Employers Federation, or SNEF), and 
trade unions (represented by NTUC), would be fundamental to Singapore’s 
approach to industrial relations and policy making. Over time, this mindset 
shift would help shape a “win-win-win” approach among tripartite members 
to harmonise their interests, rather than just compromise. This is the crux of 
the “3Ps” approach – being pro-business, pro-workers and pro-future – which 
former Minister for Manpower (2015-2018) and NTUC Secretary-General  
(2007-2015) Mr Lim Swee Say said he learnt from Mr Lee Kuan Yew. “What 
brought us to the way we are today are the 3Ps,” he told the Tripartite Collective 
panel discussion in 2022, adding that all three players in the tripartite 
partnership – the Government, workers, and businesses – “cannot solve the 
problems of the world without each other”.17 
The tight-knit partnership and consensus-building approach to addressing 
labour and wage issues took time and effort to hone, through participatory and 
integrative dialogue structures, regular confidence building sessions every year, 
constant dialogue, and even informal sessions such as weekly golf games.18
Mr Ong Yen Her, a former MOM director of the Labour Relations and Workplaces 
Division, attested to the “adversarial relations” between unions and employers Chapter 2:…To Collaboration
in the 1970s. “Very often, when I chaired meetings between the unions and 
employers, there would be raising of voices, shouting and even banging on 
tables,” he recalled in an interview for this book.19 These acrimonious disputes 
– fortunately restricted this time to the meeting rooms, instead of spilling out 
onto the streets in the form of strikes – made MOL’s role as an arbiter highly 
important. This role would subsequently broaden through tripartite structures 
such as the National Wages Council (NWC).
NWC: The First Tripartite Body
The NWC was first envisioned by economist Dr Albert Winsemius as a robust 
body that would effectively address employment and labour-management 
issues by giving priority to the establishment of nation-wide wage scales for 
similar work across industries.20 Under the United Nations Technical Assistance 
Programme, Dr Albert Winsemius had visited Singapore several times in the 
1960s and 1970s to advise the Singapore Government on what it needed to do to 
advance an industrial expansion programme.21
During his 1971 visit, he recommended creating a Wages Council to address 
the need for Singapore to raise wages until it attained full employment to 
then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Kuan Yew. However, he was not directly involved 
in any discussions for setting up the NWC, according to prominent economist 
Professor Lim Chong Yah.22
In the two years leading up to the NWC’s launch in February 1972, then-Finance 
Minister Mr Hon Sui Sen and NTUC publicly endorsed a tripartite wages council 
as a force for industrial stability.23 The idea received broad-based support from 
the business community, with Mr S.F.T.B. Lever, the outgoing Chairman of 
the Singapore International Chamber of Commerce, as well as members of the 
Singapore Employers Federation (SEF) speaking in favour of this council as a 22 23
Charting Our Pathforce for industrial stability to reconcile the interests of employers, labour and 
the Government.24
The first NWC, set up in 1972, consisted of nine members: three each from NTUC, 
employers’ organisations, and the Government. The chairman of the NWC was 
chosen from outside government, union, or management circles, so as to ensure 
neutrality in tripartite discussions and decision-making. Professor Lim Chong 
Yah, who was then the dean of the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences and head 
of the Economics Department at the University of Singapore, was chosen as the 
first chairman – a post that he served in until 2001.
Over time, the NWC has been recognised by the International Labour 
Organization (ILO) for its “critical contributions” to Singapore’s labour 
movement. It has been described by the ILO as “the first tripartite institution 
in Singapore which brought the Government, employers, and workers together 
to formulate wage guidelines to achieve orderly wage increases and to prevent 
wage disputes which could hamper the progress of industrialisation”.25
The reason for the NWC’s effectiveness lies partly in its approach to developing 
a coherent wage system consistent with long-term development.26 Unlike many 
other countries’ wage councils, which commonly focused on setting minimum 
wages to ensure that wages keep pace with consumer prices, the NWC was 
modelled after the Dutch system.27 In the aftermath of World War II, the trade 
unions in the Netherlands followed a policy of limiting their demands to the 
existing real wage level, to support the country’s industrialisation programme 
and post-war reconstruction. The unions refrained from asking for other 
wage increases besides those necessary to compensate for increasing costs of 
living. They were able to galvanise the Dutch people to postpone higher wages 
until productivity was restored to normal levels and the new industries had 
consolidated their positions.28Chapter 2:…To Collaboration
First Challenge: the 13th Month Bonus
One of the NWC’s first tasks after its formation was to rationalise current 
wage policies that might undermine Singapore’s immediate growth prospects, 
starting with the 13th month bonus. In 1972, Mr Hon Sui Sen requested that the 
NWC’s tripartite representatives provide their views and feedback on MOF’s 
intention to give an extra month’s salary to all public servants that year to 
narrow their wage gap with workers in the private sector.29
This 13th month payment was intended to serve as a “holding operation” to tide 
civil servants over while the Government restructured public pay scales in the 
aftermath of the withdrawal of British forces,30 which would have a knock-on 
impact on Singapore’s GDP. This salary review also provided the Government 
with an opportunity to look into the practice of paying increasingly higher  
year-end bonuses in the private sector.31 Singapore workers were accustomed 
to the traditional year-end bonus system, and NTUC was keen to popularise it.
However, this variable wage commitment was not as palatable for foreign 
investors because it made business planning more uncertain. Based on feedback 
from employers, MOL recognised the need to refine the practice of high year-end 
bonuses in Singapore, which differs from the system of a “clean wage” preferred 
in the West. Dr Albert Winsemius took the side of employers in objecting to a 
policy of bonus payments, which he saw as being detrimental to boosting 
productivity.32 Part of the reasoning for this was that bonuses are applied across 
the board, rather than disproportionately rewarding and incentivising the  
best-performing businesses and employees.
This rift between unions and employers on the 13th month bonus finally came to 
a close after then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Kuan Yew stepped in to steer tripartite 
discussions with the NWC.33 Subsequently, the NWC recommended replacing 24 25
Charting Our Pathall previous bonus payments with a fixed 13th month payment capped at a 
maximum of three months’ salary.34 This was implemented as the Annual Wage 
Supplement (AWS) through the Employment (Amendment) Bill in June 1972.
Second Challenge: Implementing Wage Restraint
The Oil Crisis of 1972 and 1973 posed the next significant test of the tripartite 
relations and the NWC. The war in the Middle East in the early 1970s, coupled 
with rising demand in the West, triggered a global shortage of oil and sparked 
off global inflation.
The impact of the Oil Crisis on the Singapore economy raised concerns that  
wage negotiations could get testy, as employers baulked against spiking labour 
costs. Singapore’s rapid industrialisation in the late 1960s and early 1970s had 
raised workers’ expectations of high wage increases. With GDP growth at over 10  
per cent in 1972, wage increments were in the range of 8 per cent to 10 per cent 
that year,35 compared to headline inflation rates of about 2 per cent.
The tension between the needs of the employees to have wages keep up 
with inflation, and the concerns of the employers over spiralling costs, was a 
potential source of conflict. Thus, the NWC’s mandate was to ensure orderly 
wage adjustments by formulating wage and wage-related guidelines through 
tripartism. The NWC did not have standalone secretariat and research 
capabilities. So it relied on the Government for estimates of appropriate wage 
increase recommendations for each year, which were in turn based on advice 
from Dr Albert Winsemius and his team.36
As the ILO noted in its 2010 report on Singapore’s tripartite relations, the NWC 
would formulate guidelines that were not just limited to providing a basis for Chapter 2:…To Collaboration
wage negotiations, minimising wage disputes, and fostering sound industrial 
relations. It also “laid down an important principle for wage negotiations: wage 
increases should lag behind productivity growth to maintain and enhance 
competitiveness,” it stated.37 This was reflected in the NWC’s approach to 
calibrating wage increases in the 1970s. To prevent the tight labour market from 
stoking inflationary pressures, the NWC recommended wage increases below 
the rate of consumer price inflation in 1973 and 1974.38 This move prevented a full 
pass-through of the first oil shock into wages, facilitating the economy’s quick 
absorption of the oil shock and cushioning the impact of the crisis, according to 
the International Monetary Fund.39
At the same time, the NWC had to balance the interests of employers with 
the needs of workers, as the Consumer Price Index (All Items) rose to 19.6 
per cent in 1973 and 22.4 per cent in 1974.40 This wiped out its wage increase 
recommendation of 9 per cent for 1972.41 The NWC was just gaining public 
and media awareness as a wage-setting mechanism. To ensure it did not lose 
public trust, it called for an off-cycle meeting in December 1973 and announced 
supplementary recommendations in January 1974 for an additional $25 wage 
increase to help workers cope with the unforeseen inflation.42
This translated into at least an extra 8 per cent increase in wages for the majority 
of workers, who were then earning less than $300 per month.43 The majority 
of employers chose to comply with the NWC’s recommendations,44 making its 
timely intervention even more significant in proving to unions and employers 
alike that tripartism could generate mutually agreeable and beneficial outcomes.
This episode also marked the NWC’s first public demonstration of its 
effectiveness in helping workers in times of crisis.26 27
Charting Our PathThe Consolidation of Tripartism
The NWC, by virtue of having high-level representation from employers, 
unions, and the Government, filled a critical gap in tripartite negotiations. Its 
annual sessions provided an important platform for deep, sustained discussion 
among tripartite leaders, who previously did not have similar back channels for  
regular engagement.
This fostered greater understanding of different perspectives and built trust 
among the leaders. In the initial years, the NWC’s final wage recommendations 
were often compromises or grudging accommodations from all parties.45 But 
negotiations grew increasingly effective.
As NTUC’s position strengthened as the representative tripartite partner 
negotiating on behalf of the workers at the NWC, more unions joined their  
ranks. Within six months of the NWC’s inaugural wage increase recommendation 
guidelines in 1972, trade union membership in Singapore grew 29 per cent.46
Mirroring NTUC’s rapid growth in membership, employer groups also started  
to consolidate at the prompting of MOL. An umbrella organisation, SNEF,  
was set up in 1980. It was formed from a merger of the SEF with the National 
Employers Council (NEC), to provide their combined 717 members with a 
unified voice and a more coordinated negotiating approach.
With these institutional pillars in place, tripartism would go on to serve as a 
springboard for Singapore’s capital intensive growth in the 1980s. Over time, 
NTUC and SNEF have become pillars of Singapore’s tripartite ecosystem as they 
built a more cooperative relationship to sustain Singapore’s economic growth 
and productivity.Spotlight 1: Tripartism
Tripartism: Singapore ’s
Secret Weapon Industrial 
On January 2, 1986, the phones probably rang off the hook in the 
office of Mr Ong Teng Cheong, who was then the Secretary-General of 
NTUC. Some of the calls were from Cabinet members and Government 
officials who were upset that Mr Ong Teng Cheong, as labour chief, 
had sanctioned a two-day strike by workers at the Tuas factory run by 
American oilfield equipment company Hydril. The unionised workers, 
bearing red armbands emblazoned with the words “We want justice” ,  
demonstrated peacefully outside the Jurong site, forming an orderly 
line to chant and wave their placards.1
For these workers, the tension had been simmering for months. 
Hydril’s management imposed what workers viewed as unreasonable 
standards, with 90 per cent of workers being slapped with disciplinary 
measures for not performing up to par, while six union leaders were  for
PeaceSpotlight chapters highlight key topics that span multiple eras,and how 
MOM took unique approaches to address them.
This spotlight sheds light on the journey to more peaceful industrial 
relations, and how tripartism played a critical role in resolving 
disputes and enhancing policymaking.28 29
Charting Our Pathsacked due to reportedly poor performance.2 Such actions stoked the 
staff’s suspicions that Hydril, which was under pressure to cut costs 
amid the recession, was using poor productivity as an excuse to fire 
many more without having to pay retrenchment benefits.3 When the 
management refused to enter into mediation with MOL and unions, 
the stage was set for an inevitable showdown.
Mr Ong Teng Cheong alluded to the Hydril management’s 
intransigence when explaining why he gave the green light for the 
workers to strike. Until 1986, Singapore had been strike-free for 
eight years (see Chapter 2). The Hydril case looked like a smear on 
this clean record. Yet, he made this difficult decision knowing full 
well there would be a strong pushback from other Government 
bodies such as the Economic Development Board (EDB), which was 
put in a difficult position as it was conducting a roadshow in the  
United States to attract investment to a recession-hit Singapore at this 
critical juncture.4
“I did not even tell the Cabinet about sanctioning the strike,” Mr Ong 
Teng Cheong said in an interview with Asiaweek years later in 2000.5 
“And some of them were angry with me about that. The Minister 
for Trade and Industry was very angry, his officers were very upset. 
They had calls from America, asking what happened to Singapore?”6 
But Mr Ong Teng Cheong, who became Deputy Prime Minister and 
was elected President, stood his ground at that time. “(The strike) 
only lasted two days. Then all the issues were settled. It showed that 
management was just trying to pull a fast one. So I believe what I did 
was right,” he explained.Strong Action
This watershed event demonstrated that tripartism did not mean that 
there would be no tolerance for disagreement, dissent, or in this case, 
strikes. After all, workers were permitted by laws to strike, as long as the 
unions obtained the consent of the majority of their members through 
a secret ballot. This right had been enshrined in Singapore’s Trade 
Unions Act. But unlike past conflicts in the 1950s and 60s, which were 
often the first recourse for militant unions who deployed destructive 
acts like vandalism to force the employers’ hand, the Hydril strike was 
chosen only as a “weapon of last resort” after the management turned 
a deaf ear to the union’s repeated requests to negotiate.7
With just 122 workdays lost, the Hydril strike was relatively contained. 
But its significance – imprinted in history as Singapore’s last legal 
strike – was major.8 The strike demonstrated that while the unions 
adopted a non-confrontational approach towards the Government and 
employers when finding amicable solutions, they were also prepared 
to act decisively to protect workers’ interests when the need arose.
The majority of unions are represented by NTUC, which has 58 
affiliated member unions representing 1.3 million workers in 2024.9 
As one of the pillars of Singapore’s unique model of tripartite labour 
relations, NTUC was mindful of the potential impact any decisive 
labour action may have on Singapore’s reputation as an attractive 
business destination. It also took care not to weaken tripartism, by 
adopting a collaborative – rather than confrontational – approach Spotlight 1: Tripartism30 31
Charting Our Pathto negotiating win-win-win outcomes for all three parties: workers, 
employers (represented by SNEF), and the Government.
Tripartism’s effectiveness as an enabling mechanism for ensuring 
industrial peace lies in its strong channels of communication, 
conciliation, and negotiation. For instance, the outcome of the Hydril 
strike proved MOL’s mettle as a neutral mediator to bring both 
employer and union back to the tripartite negotiating table. MOL 
facilitated 16-hour-long negotiations between the union leaders 
with Hydril’s top management, both in Singapore – its CEO was 
a Singaporean who had previously served at EDB – as well as at its 
Houston headquarters.10
Mr Ong Yen Her, former MOM Divisional Director, Labour Relations 
and Workplaces Division, was a key intermediary for those intense 
discussions, as he had built close relationships with the trade unions 
that helped bring about an amicable settlement.11 “We started 
negotiations immediately after the two-day strike and went on until 
2am or 3am,” he recalled in an interview for this book.12 Following  
tense, protracted negotiations with Hydril’s headquarters, all parties 
agreed on a package to reinstate one out of the six unionists who had 
previously been dismissed, and to compensate the other five.
In hindsight, sanctioning the Hydril strike carried some risks, recalled 
Mr Ong Yen Her. “There were certain situations where an employer 
had moved out of the line, and the trade union may have to do 
something (like a strike). But it’s a risk: what if the employer doesn’t 
back down? Then we would have a bigger problem,” he noted. Another 
risk was that the Hydril strike might trigger copycat labour strikes and repel foreign investors, but MOL demonstrated that tripartism was 
capable of effectively identifying the most appropriate solutions to 
de-escalate tensions and enforce fair play principles. “While there is 
no way to legislate that everyone ought to get along, the strength of 
tripartism is ensuring a conciliatory compromise. It also offers back 
channels of communication,” stated the authors of the 2020 research 
paper, “Tripartism in Singapore”.13
While industrial relations were relatively stable after the Hydril incident, 
two examples of labour tensions – at transport company SMRT and 
Singapore Airlines (SIA) – that narrowly averted escalating into strikes 
illustrated how things can go awry very quickly. Tripartism provided 
the first port of call for unions and employers, as well as the last word 
on amicably resolving their labour conflicts. Here are some landmark 
industrial actions involving two major Singapore organisations over the 
years that offer further insights on how tripartism works.
1980 and 2003: SIA Pilots
While tripartism seeks to help all parties find common middle ground, 
the precondition for conciliation is that both unions and management 
must comply with the law. It was not the case during the 1980 SIA Pilots’ 
Association’s (SIAPA) illegal work-to-rule industrial action.14 As one of 
the rare unions that is not under the NTUC umbrella, the SIAPA asserted 
its independence by conducting tough negotiations with management, 
outside of the traditional tripartite framework. Its confrontational 
approach and greater willingness to resort to industrial action resulted 
in a breakdown of tripartism twice, in 1980 and 2003, compelling the 
top levels of Government to intervene.Spotlight 1: Tripartism32 33
Charting Our PathIn 1980, the SIAPA put pressure on SIA to approve a 30 per cent increase 
in basic salaries and better working conditions by launching a work-to-
rule action in mid-November, calling for SIA employees to sabotage the 
company’s output and efficiency by working the bare minimum that is 
stated in their employment contracts. On November 16, in support of 
the union’s call, three SIA pilots and a flight engineer disrupted their 
Dubai to London flight during their stopover in Zurich. They were later 
sacked for their actions.15
Two weeks later on December 1, 1980, then-Prime Minister  
Mr Lee Kuan Yew stepped in to resolve the conflict. He summoned  
SIAPA leaders to the Istana, where he told them to “stop this  
intimidation, which is…bringing SIA right down”.16 In a 1980 General 
Election rally speech, he recounted how he instructed the men to 
return to work, restore discipline, and follow up by arguing their case 
in arbitration court. He also issued an ultimatum with his characteristic 
no-nonsense demeanour: “Continue this and I will by every means at 
my disposal teach you and get the people of Singapore to help me teach 
you a lesson you won’t forget.”17
After huddling together to consider Mr Lee Kuan Yew’s words, the SIAPA 
leaders agreed to call off all industrial action. On December 15, 15 SIAPA 
leaders were charged in court for illegally launching the work-to-rule 
industrial action without first taking a secret ballot.18 The SIAPA was 
also de-registered, and was replaced by the Air Line Pilots Association 
of Singapore (Alpa-S) in 1981.
However, the new Alpa-S would also stir up conflict two decades later. 
During the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) crisis, SIA reduced flight service by 20 per cent, imposed wage cuts, dismissed 
206 cabin crew trainees,19 and placed 6,600 cabin crew members on 
compulsory no-pay leave.20 In late November 2003, four NTUC-affiliated 
unions worked with the Alpa-S to bargain hard with management and 
came up with a deal on behalf of their members. If SIA workers pulled 
together to help SIA meet its S$600 million profit target for the year, 
they would receive a lump-sum payment equal to their wage cuts. On 
top of this, they would receive an additional 15 per cent payment that 
was promised. 
But when Alpa-S’s representatives went back to their members to get 
their endorsement, they were met with dissenting voices. Some of the 
members called for the current leadership to be replaced with tougher, 
more assertive representatives who would fight for better terms. They 
got their way, ousting their leaders in a no-confidence vote. This incident 
stirred the Government and NTUC to action. 
Then-NTUC Secretary-General Mr Lim Boon Heng took to the press to 
criticise those SIA pilots. He told The Straits Times: “It comes as a surprise 
that the pilots, who had given their support to the wage cuts, with built-
in protection should the company do better than expected, now boot 
out their leaders.”21 He added: “It would be naive to think that they are 
just looking after their interest. It is like starting a fire in your bedroom, 
and telling your parents, brothers and sisters that it has no impact on 
them!”22 An even sterner warning was voiced by then-Minister for 
Manpower Dr Ng Eng Hen who declared he would not allow the SIA 
pilots to jeopardise Singapore’s position as an air hub or threaten 
industrial harmony here, while then-Deputy Prime Minister Mr Lee 
Hsien Loong said the Government would not stand by and let the pilots Spotlight 1: Tripartism34 35
Charting Our PathSpotlight 1: Tripartism
“do Singapore in”.23 As the dispute continued, then-Senior Minister  
Mr Lee Kuan Yew was the next top leader to intervene to restore 
peaceful industrial relations. In February 2004, he summoned key 
leaders of Alpa-S to a meeting,24 and warned that they would face 
serious consequences if they refused to reach a compromise swiftly 
with the management. 
Alpa-S complied. It returned to negotiations mediated by MOM to avoid 
open court confrontation, and finally reached an agreement on the 
wage cuts dispute in late June. This included pay cuts of 16.5 per cent for 
captains and 11 per cent for first officers, which SIA would compensate 
for with a lump-sum compensation plan that provided the company 
with a more flexible pay structure.25 In light of the internal tussle 
and dissent within Alpa-S that nearly scuttled the deal painstakingly 
negotiated between NTUC, the SIA unions and management, the Trade 
Unions Act was amended in 2004 to allow union leaders to arrive at 
agreements with management without having to seek the consent of 
union members.26
2002 and 2012: The SMRT Sagas
It was an accumulation of grievances that began to fester, starting from 
2001 when the SMRT management butted heads with the National 
Transport Workers’ Union (NTWU). The disagreement was over the 
company’s insistence on including a stipulated quantum in the collective 
agreement, against the union’s request for this to be determined by 
annual negotiations.27 A year later, the union was further aggrieved 
when SMRT failed to honour an annual wage increase.For the NTWU, they believed that SMRT management had crossed 
the line. Refusing to back down again, the only solution left in this 
intractable situation was to initiate a strike. They cast a secret ballot 
among members, with the majority agreeing to this action of last 
resort. They also received blessings from their umbrella union – NTUC. 
But as essential public transport workers, the SMRT workers were 
required by law to give the management two weeks’ notice about the  
work stoppage.28
Before the union served notice of their strike plans, several things 
happened behind the scenes to resolve the situation without a standoff. 
Then-NTUC Secretary-General Mr Lim Boon Heng notified Ministry 
of Transport officials, who, in turn, informed SMRT, putting pressure 
on the company to honour their agreement with the union.29 The 
management finally acquiesced, averting a potentially disruptive strike.30 
This outcome illustrated how informal channels of communication 
helped resolve the issues.
The issue was more complicated a decade later, when workers, who 
were not union members took matters into their own hands by refusing 
to turn up for work. A total of 171 Chinese national bus drivers went on 
strike on November 26, 2012. It was an action deemed illegal under the 
Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act’s specific notice provisions 
for strikes in essential services.
The Chinese nationals, who numbered about 450 out of SMRT’s 
2,000-strong roster of bus drivers, were unhappy that SMRT was paying 
them less than their Malaysian counterparts;31 increasing their work 36 37
Charting Our PathSpotlight 1: Tripartism
schedules from five to six days a week,32 and providing poor dormitory 
living conditions. At that time, less than 5 per cent of the Chinese 
drivers were members of the NTWU, and many of them were reportedly 
unaware of Singapore’s laws on strikes. Angered that the complaints 
they lodged with their supervisors were met with a tepid response, a 
large group banded together to agitate for change by refusing to show 
up for work. This disrupted about 10 per cent of SMRT’s bus services on 
the first day, and 5 per cent on the second day.33
Facilitated by MOM officers, SMRT sought to negotiate with the  
strikers, initially offering a S$25 monthly pay raise,34 but that was 
insufficient to pacify the Chinese workers.35 On November 27, 88 drivers 
extended the strike into the second day. The following day, 20 of the 
strikers were called in by the police to assist with investigations,36 with 
five of them arrested and subsequently charged for instigating the 
illegal strike.37 They were jailed for between six and seven weeks for 
their actions.
The strike ended that day with the rest of the bus drivers – apart from 
six who had valid reasons for being absent – returning to work. Four 
days later, 29 drivers who were found to be active participants in the 
illegal strike were deported to China.38
In the aftermath of the strike, SMRT conducted internal investigations 
and its then-CEO Mr Desmond Kuek acknowledged that the strike 
might have been averted if the bus drivers’ supervisors had responded 
in more sensitive ways to the drivers’ grievances.39 The company moved 
to improve dormitory conditions and strengthen communication through channels such as regular townhall meetings with workers.40 
By February 2013, about 75 per cent of the Chinese drivers at SMRT 
had joined the union.41
Building Trust During Crises
The twists and turns of the SIA and SMRT labour disputes provide a 
look into the tripartite mechanisms that help to support industrial 
harmony. Tripartism in and of itself is not a silver bullet that will 
ensure industrial harmony. Workers and employers need to have a 
shared interest to achieve win-win outcomes, and this can also benefit 
the nation as a whole. 
Over the decades, the tripartite partnership has undergone a baptism 
of fire multiple times through the various crises and challenges – 
from the turbulence in the 1970s to the economic recessions in 1985, 
1997 and 2008, as well as epidemics and pandemics such as SARS 
and COVID-19 – and emerged stronger and more united than before.  
Their trust-based decisions, as a result, can stand the test: during the 
1997 Asian Financial Crisis, for example, unions agreed to CPF cuts, 
trusting that they would be restored when the economy recovers – 
and they were right (see Chapter 4).
In contrast, other countries in Europe and North America face more 
frequent industrial actions and work stoppages. A cautionary tale is 
found in Ireland, where good tripartite relations weakened during 
the 2008 Global Financial Crisis. Hard-hit banks sought a bailout 
from the Irish government, which gave them billions. But when 38 39
Charting Our PathSpotlight 1: Tripartism
unions sought help from the Irish government for the many displaced 
workers who lost their jobs amid the crisis, the Government stood 
aside. “The Government said sorry, there is no more money left 
to save the workers. When that happened, everything collapsed.  
The unions could no longer trust the Government and employers,” said  
Mr Lim Boon Heng in a Stewardship Asia research report.42
More recently, 2023 marked a significant jump in major work 
stoppages, involving 1,000 or more workers, in some western 
countries: the US witnessed a two-decade peak of 33 such incidents 
involving nearly 459,000 workers while France was mired in hundreds 
of nation-wide strikes and protests,43 including an episode involving 
over a million people opposing pension reform.44 Singapore’s disputes, 
in comparison, have been mainly confined to employment claims and 
appeals that were settled amicably, largely through mediation. 
The contrast between Singapore’s brand of collaborative tripartism 
and the more confrontational style of tripartism in some other 
countries highlights how important it is to build what Deputy Prime 
Minister Mr Gan Kim Yong described as the “deep reservoir of trust 
and understanding” between the tripartite partners. 
“Crisis after crisis, we have been able to maintain that trust: Employers 
recognise the sacrifices of workers, so they reward them appropriately 
when the crisis is over and the company does well,” said Mr Gan 
Kim Yong, who was Minister for Manpower from 2009 to 2011, in 
an interview for this book.45 “When companies run into difficulties, 
the workers and unions reciprocate by saying, ‘Okay, we will tighten our belts and survive together.’ This journey strengthens trust and 
understanding, allowing tripartism to serve a common cause of 
growing businesses and sharing the growth with the workers.”
Building Rapport During Times of Peace 
Tripartism in Singapore has changed the rules of the game for unions 
and employers over time. During the era of industrial strife from the 
1940s to 1960s, management and unions had been part of the problem 
contributing to civil unrest. But with the rise of tripartism, they have 
become part of the solution leading to amicable dispute resolution, 
aided by the Government as a facilitator and mediator. 
This has enhanced the quality of policymaking and the effective 
implementation of these policies, by factoring employers’ and 
employees’ perspectives into the policy formulation process. This 
has allowed policymakers to address issues of concern early on, 
leading to better-designed policies, and smoother implementation.  
As discussed in later chapters of this book, various tripartite 
committees have succeeded in developing policies that would have 
been deemed very contentious in other countries, such as raising the 
retirement age. 
In 2018, when raising the retirement age was taking shape on the 
national policy agenda, MOM approached union leaders as a sounding 
board, even before creating a tripartite working group to prepare 
the ground for policy-formulation. Then-Minister for Manpower  
Mrs Josephine Teo, who was appointed to the post in May 2018, 40 41
Charting Our PathSpotlight 1: Tripartism
recalls approaching then-Assistant Secretary-General of NTUC  
Ms Cham Hui Fong, whom she knew well from her union days, to 
set up meetings with the union’s cluster leaders. “We went into 
quite specific discussions on the retirement age and re-employment 
age, and what various union clusters believed was beneficial to the 
workers,” she recounted in an interview for this book.46
This was followed by similar discussions with SNEF leaders, who 
were “open-minded and accepted the fact that it was in their interest 
to address this question”, she said, adding that the unions’ and 
employers’ early feedback, along with the subsequent formation 
of a tripartite working group, helped to pave the way for a smooth 
transition when the policy was finally introduced. “These exchanges 
helped us to understand each other’s concerns, allowing us to come to 
a consensus on what was best for Singapore,” she added.
Indeed, a key reason why Singapore’s tripartism has been so successful 
is that it has delivered results, said former Director-General of the ILO 
Mr Guy Ryder. Speaking at the International Forum on Tripartism 
in 2015, he highlighted tripartism as “fundamentally important” 
to policy-making. And while other countries struggle to adopt it, 
Singapore has succeeded for a few reasons, he said.47
“The first thing, I think we need to remember it, is that tripartism 
will generally be judged like everything else, by the results that it 
produces. Results matter. We can’t preach a principle if the principle 
doesn’t produce results. And here in Singapore, of course, the results 
are very plain for all to see,” he said.The second key factor is the importance of having a firm institutional 
base through which tripartism is conducted. Singapore, he said, 
has that firm institutional base, one which enables “the decisions 
from tripartism to be enacted transparently, honestly and quickly”.  
The last factor is that tripartism has to be conducted between 
independent and representative organisations. In this regard, 
Singapore has the key factors for tripartism to succeed.
None of these benefits of tripartism happened by chance. Tripartism 
has been cultivated over decades, forged by mutual trust and bonds 
among the tripartite partners. These special bonds have also been 
formed through shared experiences through formal frameworks 
like the NWC, as well as regular informal platforms, such as the 
tripartite golf games at the Orchid Country Club.48 Despite the early 
tee-off, tripartite leaders turn up to tune their swing and discuss 
their perspectives on labour issues. This, in turn, has allowed the 
tripartite partners to practise the art of give-and-take: sometimes 
employers score a win; at other times, unions get their say; and 
MOM remains a neutral arbiter ensuring that national interests 
are well-served on these fairways of amicable exchanges. What is 
also important to keep in mind is that these special bonds and trust 
must be consciously rebuilt with each successive generation of  
tripartite leaders.
“With every new manpower minister, every new generation of union 
leaders and management leaders, you need to rebuild that trust,” said 
Mr Gan Kim Yong. “This trust cannot be inherited.”49Era 2
Industrialisation 
and Beyond45With the system in place to create industrial peace, the focus turned 
towards building Singapore’s economy, a plan that consisted of rapid 
industrialisation coupled with an export-oriented strategy. This economic 
plan was also devised to tackle what the new Government identified as a key 
impediment to nation-building: mass unemployment. The high unemployment 
rate of nearly 10 per cent in 1961, combined with a fast-growing population 
that was increasing at roughly 4 per cent a year, made it clear that job creation  
was paramount.1
The plan to look outwards was born out of a realisation by the nation’s leaders 
that the tiny nation could not afford to go down the protectionist route that 
many newly independent countries had because of its limited manpower and 
natural resources. Singapore’s small market size also meant that an import 
substitution strategy, where goods would be manufactured domestically 
instead of imported, would not work. Creating an export-led economy was the 
way to go. Dr Goh Keng Swee, often called the economic architect of Singapore, 
explained the growth strategy in an essay published later in 1976 titled  Chapter 3: Building a Productive Workforce
Chapter 3
Building a Productive Workforce46 47
Charting Our Path“A Socialist Economy That Works”. “Singapore’s growing industries produced 
goods not for the domestic market, which was far too small, nor even for the 
regional market in Southeast Asia…Our market was the world market. They 
(foreign investors) brought with them not only production and management 
know-how, but also the world market for their products,” said Dr Goh Keng 
Swee.2 Courting foreign investors had two advantages. First, large foreign 
companies had the expertise, networks, financial capital and access to global 
markets to enable Singapore to quickly scale up its industries and create jobs. 
Second, these foreign companies could transfer their knowledge to the local 
workforce, equipping employees here to eventually take over the building up of 
local industries. In charge of this effort was the EDB, which courted companies 
like Texas Instruments and Fairchild from the United States, and Seiko  
from Japan.
To make Singapore an even more attractive investment location, the 
Government also introduced the Economic Expansion Incentives Act in 1967, 
which provided new tax incentives for investments. These included up to 90 per 
cent remission of tax profits to approved enterprises for up to 15 years, among 
other tax exemptions and relief. Singapore was turning into a regional industrial 
powerhouse thanks to its export-oriented economic strategy.3
But just as its industrialisation plan was shaping up, Singapore was dealt a major 
blow when the British announced in 1967 that it would withdraw its military, 
which accounted for 20 per cent of the economy, by 1972. The bombshell gave 
the Government greater urgency to press ahead with its economic growth 
plans. Among other things, it set up a department called the Bases Economic 
Conversion Department, which conducted negotiations with the British on 
the takeover of its bases. Led by the first EDB chairman Mr Hon Sui Sen, the 
Department took over nearly 15,000 acres of land and property from the British.4 
It was also responsible for the vocational training of nearly 24,000 Singaporean workers who were made redundant, enabling them to get jobs in the booming 
manufacturing sector.
The Government’s swift actions tempered the impact of the British military 
withdrawal, with the Singapore economy continuing its upward climb. With 
the global economy growing rapidly, Singapore leveraged the rising demand for 
consumer products to achieve sustained growth in the early post-independence 
period. By 1973, Singapore’s economy was booming and the Government had 
achieved its earlier target of preventing mass unemployment with relentless  
job creation.
Real gross domestic product (GDP) grew at an average rate of 13 per cent 
annually from 1966 to 1973, a pace that put Singapore among the fastest-
growing economies in the developing world. In absolute value, the country’s 
GDP had quadrupled from S$1.92 billion at the beginning of the decade to S$7.52 
billion by 1978. Most importantly, the unemployment rate fell from 9 per cent 
in 1966 to 4.4 per cent in 1973, with employment in the manufacturing sector 
growing by more than 50 per cent between 1966 and 1969.5
Another key contributing factor to Singapore’s successful industrialisation was 
the increase in female labour force participation. Between 1957 and 1980, the 
labour force participation rate for resident women more than doubled from 
21.6 to 44.3 per cent.6 This brought the share of women in the labour force up 
from 18 per cent in 1957 to 31.4 per cent by 1976, a move facilitated by broader 
developmental strategies.7 Most notably, the Government set aside up to 20 per 
cent of land within high-density residential estates, or “new towns,” for light 
and clean industries. It allowed such industries to tap workers from housing 
estates, especially women who were more inclined to such jobs and preferred to 
work closer to home.Chapter 3: Building a Productive Workforce48 49Charting Our Path
As industrialisation raced ahead, Singapore started facing another problem, 
one that was diametrically opposite to its initial challenges. The country’s 
labour surplus was quickly turning into a shortage, making it harder to meet 
growing business demand. To overcome the constraints of limited manpower 
supply, Singapore sought a two-pronged solution: raise productivity levels by 
reskilling the workforce and improving workplace safety, and augment the local 
workforce with skilled foreign labour.
Solution 1: Raise Productivity
The concept of productivity, while not novel, was not widely embraced by 
industry in the 1970s. Businesses often hired large numbers of workers, who 
were often unskilled and untrained. If Singapore wanted to raise its productivity, 
it would have to educate businesses and workers on the importance of 
productivity, while providing them with the necessary resources to do so.
This push for productivity was something that had already been on the minds 
of Singapore’s leaders since the 1960s, when the National Productivity Centre 
(NPC) was established in 1967. EDB had charge over it, with support from NTUC, 
SNEF and the Singapore Manufacturers’ Association. In 1971, the running of the 
NPC was transferred to MOL, which took the next step to transform it into the 
National Productivity Board (NPB) in 1972.
MOL’s mission was clear: increase the productivity of the workforce, which 
would allow businesses to do more with less. This would, in turn, alleviate the 
shortage of manpower that the economy was facing, a task that would be taken 
on by the NPB. During the debate to pass the NPB bill in Parliament in 1972, 
then-Minister for Labour Mr Ong Pang Boon explained that raising productivity 
in Singapore was crucial because of the country’s economic realities – a small 
nation with no natural resources, except for its people, geographical location and fine harbour. “While other countries have abundant mineral deposits to 
exploit, we have none. While other countries have vast, fertile tracts of land to 
till, we have none. We can build a healthy economy and enjoy a high standard of 
living only upon the productivity and discipline of our working population…in 
both the public and private sectors,” he said.8
NPB was founded with a 14-member board consisting of the chairman, an 
executive director, and three directors each to represent the Government, 
employers and trade unions, and academic and professional bodies associated 
with productivity. This range of representation was deliberate, Mr Ong Pang 
Boon pointed out, as it would “help the Board to better serve the felt needs of 
different groups in our society and to better elicit their support in the task of 
raising productivity”.9
NPB had five key objectives:
1. Promote productivity consciousness amongst management personnel,  
 trade union leaders and workers.
2. Provide training facilities for management and trade union personnel in  
all productivity techniques, including general management, personnel  
management, supervisory development, management accounting and  
industrial engineering.
3. Foster and promote good industrial relations by training and promoting the  
formation of joint consultative councils.
4. Render management consultancy services to assist industrial enterprises in  
achieving a general raising of productivity.
5. Assist industrial establishments in formulating and rationalising wage  
policies and wage systems.
Like many new policies or programmes of that era, a communications campaign 
was designed to raise awareness of the importance of improving productivity. Chapter 3: Building a Productive Workforce50 51
Charting Our PathOn April 12, 1975, the first national productivity campaign was launched by 
then-Minister for Labour Mr S. Rajaratnam. Managed by NPB, with the slogan 
“Productivity Is Our Business”, the messages were disseminated via mass 
media channels like television and radio. Seminars were also organised while 
paraphernalia such as pamphlets, key chains, posters, and car decals were 
distributed to the workforce.10
Perhaps the most recognisable and successful of NPB’s campaigns was in 
1982, when its mascot Teamy the Bee was unveiled. Teamy represented high 
productivity themes such as being organised and industrious, working in a team 
and communicating well with others. The affable mascot was broadcast across 
Singapore on television, bus panels, textbooks, comic strips, calendars and even 
milk packets.11 Teamy was often seen uttering catch slogans such as “Come on 
Singapore, let’s all do a little bit more” and “Good, better, best, never let it rest 
until your good is better and your better is best”, the latter of which was made 
into a productivity song named “Good, Better, Best”.12
That same year of 1982 also saw then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Kuan Yew launching 
Productivity Month in November. In support of NPB’s efforts, he encouraged 
trade unions and employers to champion productivity. Programmes and 
activities were to be held every November to educate workers on the importance 
and benefits of productivity for both the company and its workers, with 
productivity messages disseminated through posters, songs and newsletters.13
Upskill the Workforce
While campaigns raised awareness of productivity, scaling up training for 
Singapore’s domestic workforce was key to increasing workers’ output and 
overall productivity. Upskilling workers would also help push Singapore’s 
economy up the value chain and attract greater foreign investment with higher 
value-added industries, in line with a long-term approach for the economy that then-Minister for Finance Mr Hon Sui Sen had mooted in 1973.14 While going up 
the value chain was warmly welcomed by most stakeholders (see Chapter 4), 
upgrading workers’ skills was met with a less enthusiastic response, particularly 
from employers who baulked at employees having to miss work if they were 
sent for training.
Convincing employers was not easy, and the problem was made more difficult 
due to a lack of training infrastructure. Tackling the challenge required a novel 
solution, one which was devised by the National Wages Council (NWC), in 
partnership with other agencies such as the Ministry of Trade and Industry 
(MTI) and the National Employers’ Council.
In June 1979, the NWC recommended the formation of a central fund dedicated 
to skills development that would be funded by employers in Singapore. The 
Skills Development Fund (SDF) would be financed via the Skills Development 
Levy, a levy placed on employers who hire lower-wage workers. Backed by Mr 
Hon Sui Sen, the NWC’s recommendations were accepted by the Government in 
September 1979 when the Skills Development Levy Act was passed. As Mr Hon Sui 
Sen put it, the levy was “a form of economic tax to penalise employers who made 
little effort to wean off their over-reliance on cheap labour or to improve their 
work processes”.
Under the Skills Development Levy Act, employers had to pay 2 per cent of an 
employee’s remuneration in any month or S$5, whichever was greater, for 
employees earning less than S$750.15 Money collected from the levy would be 
matched by the Government every month and put into the SDF to fund workforce 
training programmes and business operations upgrading. Businesses which sent 
their workers for upgrading courses could claim reimbursement for the course 
fees, or apply for grants to support in-house training programmes if no suitable 
courses were available.16 It was a significant milestone, where employers could for 
the first time receive subsidies for sending their workers for training.Chapter 3: Building a Productive Workforce52 53
Charting Our PathWhile the fund was administered by MOF, a tripartite advisory council called the 
Skills Development Council helped to make decisions on how the funds should 
be used. The council included 12 members, four from the Government, four to 
represent employers and four from NTUC to represent trade unions. Together, 
the Skills Development Council worked to improve training infrastructure by 
launching several training programmes under the SDF to train the workforce:
• Basic Education for Skills Training (BEST)
Started in 1983, BEST was aimed at workers with up to Primary Six level 
education, and offered to improve their basic literacy and numeracy to 
prepare them for further skills training.
• Modular Skills Training (MOST)
MOST was launched in 1984 to encourage employers to sponsor workers 
for training in specific skills one module at a time, making training more 
manageable for employees while ensuring that those who go for such 
training programmes would only be absent from work for short periods  
of time.
• Core Skills for Effectiveness and Change (COSEC)
COSEC was launched in 1986 to equip workers with generic skills that most 
industries require. It included modules on problem-solving, computer 
literacy, communication and personal effectiveness.
• Worker Improvement through Secondary Education (WISE)
Launched in 1987, WISE built on the BEST scheme to enable Primary Six 
level educated workers who desired to continue their education on a  
part-time basis. These workers were given the opportunity to study till the 
Secondary Four level and eventually sit for the GCE ‘N’ level examinations.17The SDF’s training programmes proved successful. By 1989, 116,300 workers, 
half of the target group, had gone through BEST,18 while 100,000 workers had 
gone through COSEC by 1991.19 A total of 240,000 workers, roughly one out of 
five of Singapore’s workforce, benefitted in 1998 alone.20 The SDF continued to 
expand its budget over the years, slowly reaching more and more of Singapore’s 
workforce with its training and upskilling programmes.
With the NPB and SDF, Singapore’s productivity plan began to take shape. 
However, the country’s leaders knew that developing the local workforce 
would take time. In the interim, Singapore still needed foreign workers to 
address the immediate problem of its labour shortage in the 1970s to keep up its  
rapid industrialisation.
Improve Workplace Safety
There was growing recognition of the need for better workplace safety to protect 
workers and help them do their jobs better and faster. With industrialisation, 
factories had become commonplace – leading to an increase in workplace 
accidents. The number of fatal accidents in factories had almost doubled from 
68 in 1967 to 159 in 1970, while permanent disablement cases rose from 598 to 
886 between 1967 and 1970. The number of man-days lost through industrial 
accidents also rose, tripling from 99,539 in 1967 to 302,800 in 1970.21
The Workmen’s Compensation (Amendment) Bill was passed in 1971, building 
on the Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance that had been enacted in 1955. 
It served to protect workers earning less than S$750, who are eligible for 
compensation if the personal injuries they suffered at work caused them to be 
out of work for more than three days.22Chapter 3: Building a Productive Workforce54 55
Charting Our PathTwo years later, in 1973, MOL introduced the Factories Act, which laid down 
safety regulations and guidelines and legislated factory registration.23 The bill 
replaced the Factories Ordinance which had been passed in 1958.24 Speaking in 
Parliament during the reading of the Factories Bill in 1972, Mr Ong Pang Boon 
noted that workplace accidents resulted in economic costs, but “the most painful 
aspect of industrial accidents…is the human suffering, anguish and misery 
caused by loss of life and health. The loss of a father, a husband, a loved one can 
never be compensated. To think otherwise is to brutalise our conscience”.25
This concern for the lives of Singapore’s workforce drove MOL’s insistence 
on protecting workers through legislation – providing a safe and conducive 
environment in which Singapore’s workers could thrive.
Solution 2: Bring in Skilled Foreign Labour
Migrant workers were first brought in to fill gaps in the construction and 
manufacturing industries in 1968. Work Permits for these workers were for a 
short duration with no guarantee of renewal. Malaysia, particularly the state of 
Johor, was the traditional source of foreign workers.
In 1973 MOL granted three-year Work Permits to skilled Malaysian workers 
to help fill manpower gaps, a first in Singapore’s relaxation of Work Permit 
restrictions for skilled workers in a bid to move away from industries that hired 
cheap, unskilled labour.
It was made clear in Parliament by Mr Ong Pang Boon that Singapore’s 
shifting economic strategy, from promoting labour-intensive industries to  
higher-skilled ones, would mean being selective with the intake of foreign 
labour. “Work Permits…will continue to be issued liberally to those applicants 
who possess the skills which Singapore needs, or who can be easily trained to acquire these skills. On the other hand, unskilled applicants and those applying 
for white-collar jobs will not be favourably considered for Work Permits unless 
they have special merits,” he said, during a Budget debate in 1974.26
By 1980, Singapore’s non-resident labour force had grown to make up 7.2 per 
cent of the total labour force, up from 3.3 per cent in 1970.27 However, a report 
by the World Bank noted that the distribution of skills among migrant workers 
was concentrated at both the high-skilled and low-skilled ends, similar to the 
distribution in 1970. This signalled that the economy was lagging behind in its 
move up the value chain, with a large proportion of low-skilled foreign workers 
still needing to be employed.28
Despite efforts to raise productivity, complemented by foreign workers, more 
had to be done. The inertia that Singapore’s workforce was experiencing when 
it came to raising productivity was likely due to a larger issue – a low wage level. 
This problem, however, would soon be addressed by the country’s leaders in its 
corrective wage policy in 1979.Chapter 3: Building a Productive Workforce56 57
Charting Our PathSingapore’s rapid industrialisation initially yielded impressive results, 
attracting significant investment, spawning manufacturing assembly lines, 
and generating thousands of jobs. However, the strategy soon encountered 
its limits. GDP growth, which had previously averaged between 10 per cent and  
12 per cent earlier in the decade, began to taper off, averaging around 7 per cent 
between 1976 and 1978. This deceleration was largely attributed to the maturation 
of low-value-added, labour-intensive industries that had formed the backbone 
of Singapore’s economy. As neighbouring countries began to close the gap, the 
competitive landscape became increasingly challenging, further constraining 
growth. To sustain its high growth trajectory and retain its competitive edge, 
Singapore needed to ascend the value chain and adapt its economic strategy to 
new realities.
Relying on labour-intensive industries and a semi-skilled workforce was unlikely 
to be a viable long-term strategy. Instead, some of the top economic minds in the 
country suggested that Singapore switch to what was considered a radical and 
unpopular economic strategy, which would later be called Singapore’s “Second Chapter 4
Wage Woes: Embarking on Reform Chapter 4: Wage Woes
Industrial Revolution”.1 If it paid off, however, the new approach would ensure 
the country’s continued growth and prosperity for the decade ahead.
It hinged on one key factor: wages. Singapore’s industrialisation, including the 
subsequent raising of skills and productivity of local workers, all pointed to one 
outcome – wages had to rise in tandem with the country’s development so that 
Singapore would not be trapped as a low-wage economy. However, Singapore 
had till then maintained a low wage level to enhance the competitiveness of 
its labour-intensive industries. As then-Prime Minister Mr Goh Chok Tong 
recalled in a 2001 speech: “In the ’ 60s and early ’70s, we had kept wages low to 
be competitive. We attracted a lot of labour-intensive, semi-skilled industries.”2 
But continuing with low wages would hinder Singapore’s move up the value 
chain by promoting such industries. Conversely, increasing wages would filter 
out less productive businesses and enhance productivity.
While it made economic sense to review wages to go up the value chain, the 
effects of this wage restructuring, recognised as Singapore’s high wage policy, 
was a contributing factor to a recession in 1985. This prompted a major review 
of its economic and labour policies.
Corrective Wage Policy
A visit to China in 1979 by then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Kuan Yew and a group of 
leaders triggered a rethink of Singapore’s approach to economic growth. After 
surveying China’s fast-growing economy powered by industrial factories, the 
group returned to Singapore with the conclusion that the country could not 
compete in low value-added labour-intensive industries. Large countries like 
China, and later India, and Southeast Asian neighbours such as Indonesia had 
a seemingly unlimited supply of low-cost labour to power their industries, 
a resource that Singapore lacked. The country had to move away from low  58 59
Charting Our Pathvalue-added industries if it wanted to keep growing and remain competitive 
globally.
Former chairman of the National Wages Council (NWC), Professor Lim Chong 
Yah, recounted his own experience visiting China in a separate tour during the 
same year. In his book Singapore’s National Wages Council: An Insider’s View, he 
said: “We came back with the same conclusion. Therefore, many of us decided 
that we must do something to upgrade our economy, and not to compete in low 
value-added labour-intensive industries.”3
The idea for pushing up wages was not new, said Dr Albert Winsemius, 
Singapore’s then-economic advisor. He told the Singapore Monitor in 1984 that 
it was something he had considered pushing for as early as 1971.4 But global 
inflation caused by the oil crisis put a pause on that idea – moving on higher 
wages amid a high inflation environment could result in runaway inflation.
“That went nicely in 1970, 71, 72 but in 73 I also got frightened. Instead of sticking 
to my guns, I compromised. And that was a major mistake,” he said. “After that, 
we got a tight labour market because our wages became too cheap, too low. 
There was more demand for it than we had in our labour market.” He continued 
to study the data from other countries such as Hong Kong, South Korea, and 
Taiwan, and found that Singapore was lagging behind its counterparts. “In 
order to upgrade, we have to increase our wages, thus forcing employers to 
upgrade,” he concluded.
In a separate interview with the National Archives of Singapore,  
Dr Albert Winsemius said that this time in 1979 he was ready to make a firm 
recommendation. “I spent a whole Sunday on it (studying the data), and 
then it became clear to me that we were on the wrong track. Other countries 
had increased their production by increasing productivity, we had increased 
production by increasing the number of work permits,” he said.Armed with the data, he went on to write a two-page report titled “Vicious 
Circle of Low Wage, Low Productivity”, which detailed how Singapore’s low 
wage policy had led to minimal productivity growth and a tighter labour 
market.5 In it, he proposed embarking on a corrective wage policy, one which 
priced workers’ salaries out of low-value industries. The paper, which Dr Albert 
Winsemius described as the best one he had written, was eventually sent to the 
Government for consideration.6
Following the trip to China, Professor Lim Chong Yah, Dr Albert Winsemius 
and then-Permanent Secretary for the Ministry of Trade and Industry Mr Ngiam 
Tong Dow met to discuss their thoughts about the visit. They agreed with Dr 
Albert Winsemius that Singapore had to adopt a corrective wage policy to force 
companies to move up the value chain.7
On May 30, 1979, Mr Ngiam Tong Dow, a member of the NWC, raised the issue 
of low wages. He put forward two key arguments for a high-wage policy:
1. Low wages meant a low cost of labour, which in turn generated an excessive 
demand for labour, leading to a large inflow of low-skilled foreign workers.
2. Low wages also meant little incentive and pressure for companies to 
improve productivity, causing Singapore to remain dominated by low-wage 
industries.8
The policy was debated vigorously by members of the NWC. Government 
officials supported the strategy while unionists, initially sceptical, eventually 
supported the move. Employers, on the other hand, agreed with the overall 
strategy but did not want wages to move up so quickly.Chapter 4: Wage Woes60 61
Charting Our PathThe plan was then submitted to the Prime Minister on June 23, 1979, and 
subsequently accepted by the Government. In a letter to then-Prime Minister Mr 
Lee Kuan Yew, Professor Lim Chong Yah wrote: “If Singapore is to survive in a 
harshly competitive world, the skill and technology content of our manufactured 
products and services, and our standards of job performance must constantly 
be raised to higher levels than those of other competing countries, both in the 
Asian region and elsewhere.”9
Then-Minister for Labour Mr Ong Pang Boon, speaking at the 48th annual dinner 
of the Singapore Manufacturers’ Association in 1980, noted that the policy 
was “intended to make wages reflect more closely the current labour market 
situation and to ensure that our products and services remain competitive in 
world export markets.” He added that the move was to help “spread the backlog 
of wage increases that ought to have been given during the cautious period 
of 1975 to 1978 (following the 1973/1974 oil crisis) over the three-year period 
stretching from 1979 to 1981.”10
From Restructuring to Recession, then Coordinated Response
The NWC’s corrective wage policy played out across three years, starting in 
1979 with a S$32 plus 7 per cent increase in wages and a 4 percentage point hike 
in Central Provident Fund (CPF) contributions from employers, bringing it up 
to 20.5 per cent. This increase was backed by data that Dr Albert Winsemius 
and the NWC had studied, and was carefully decided on to boost Singapore’s 
regional competitiveness. Workers were naturally happy with the pay rise, but 
some employers expressed their unhappiness at the policy. Some businesses, 
such as sawmills, were forced to close because employers could not cope with 
the drastic rise in labour costs. According to Prof Lim Chong Yah, however, 
employers’ associations, which had “lots of very responsible and cooperative 
people,” helped to bridge the gap between the NWC and employers.Speaking at the opening of the national convention on Industrial Relations for 
the Eighties in 1980, Mr Ong Pang Boon warned employers not to sack workers 
just to save on wages, remarking that retrenchment ought to be a last resort. 
“Care must be taken not to exploit the situation…They should not, under the 
guise of upgrading, retrench older workers merely to save on the wage bill,” he 
said. While he cautioned employers, Mr Ong Pang Boon also urged trade unions 
and workers to “extend every cooperation to employers who are upgrading 
their establishments”.11
Although the majority of employers were compliant with the wage increases, 
some wondered how long the policy would last. Then-Deputy Prime Minister 
Mr Goh Chok Tong assured Singaporeans in 1980 that the high wage policy 
was a “short-term offensive weapon against slipping productivity and getting 
stuck in the quicksand of low value-added labour-intensive industries”, which 
he predicted would last for three to five years.12 The next year, in 1981, Mr Goh 
Chok Tong continued to highlight the necessity of the wage hike in his Budget 
Statement, saying: “We must first break the vicious circle of low wages sustaining 
too labour-intensive activities, which lead in turn to poor productivity growth, 
and over-tight labour market and slower economic growth.” The push for 
higher wages resulted in significantly elevated incomes for workers, with the 
average wage increase for resident workers across the three years amounting to 
a staggering 58 per cent.13
Despite worries that the high wage policy would hurt the economy, surveys 
showed that the policy was meeting its intended objective. According to a 
survey by SNEF in 1981, 75 per cent of the 239 companies that implemented the 
NWC’s wage guidelines had chosen to upgrade skills, automate and reorganise 
to offset the increased labour costs.14 At the national level, there was a 71 per 
cent increase in fixed investment per worker for new investment commitments, 
and a 28 per cent increase in value-added per worker. There were also clear Chapter 4: Wage Woes62 63
Charting Our Pathsigns that the economy was restructuring, with more companies from high  
value-added industries such as computers, electronics, machinery and 
pharmaceutical products opening up facilities in Singapore.
However, the corrective wage policy soon proved to be a double-edged sword. 
Despite its usefulness in hastening Singapore’s move up the value chain, it 
also accelerated the country’s rising costs of production, which impacted the 
country’s competitiveness. As then-Prime Minister Mr Goh Chok Tong observed 
in 2001: “The wage correction was meant to last only three years. But the 
economy continued to expand even as it was restructured. Wages, therefore, 
kept on climbing even after the 3-year wage correction period ended in 1982. 
The end result was that wages outstripped productivity growth. They rose by 
14 per cent per annum between 1979 and 1984, above the annual productivity 
growth of 5 per cent.”15
In 1985, Singapore suffered its first post-independence recession, the result of 
both external and internal factors. The weak external environment led to a drop in 
export demand while the high wage policy eroded Singapore’s competitiveness. 
After enjoying an average GDP growth of about 8.5 per cent each year, Singapore’s 
economy contracted by 1.8 per cent in 1985.16 The manufacturing and construction 
sectors suffered the most from the recession, shrinking by 7.3 and 14.3 per cent 
respectively in that year.17 A total of 135,000 workers lost their jobs,18 and the 
unemployment rate rose to 4.1 per cent, up from 2.7 per cent in the previous year.19
The sudden yet severe turn in Singapore’s economic fortunes was a sober 
reminder that the young nation was not immune to the volatility of the business 
cycles. “It was an important lesson for us, because it was the first time since our 
successful industrialisation plan, which brought in a lot of foreign investment, 
that we faced a severe recession,” said Mr Ong Yen Her, former MOM Divisional 
Director, Labour Relations and Workplaces Division, in an interview for  
this book.Singapore reacted swiftly. Then-Minister for Trade and Industry Dr Tony Tan 
formed the Economic Committee (EC) in March 1985, helmed by then-Minister 
of State for Trade and Industry Mr Lee Hsien Loong to study the recession. After 
many meetings and just under a year later, the EC published a 234-page report 
titled “The Singapore Economy: New Directions”. It detailed the causes of the 
recession and laid out the way forward for the Singapore economy. The report 
named high wage costs as one of the key contributing factors to Singapore’s  
loss in competitiveness, as it stopped businesses from adjusting quickly to 
market conditions.20
To help companies ride through the recession, the EC recommended a temporary 
but deep 15-percentage-point cut in the employer’s CPF contributions, from 
25 to 10 per cent.21 It also suggested that there be no increase in overall wage 
levels for at least two years to prevent wages racing ahead after the cuts. 
Cutting CPF contributions, in particular, was a contentious issue, with the 
unionists opposed to the move. To allay their concerns, Mr Goh Chok Tong 
held an 80-minute closed-door dialogue with over 200 unionists representing 
70 NTUC-affiliated unions on December 27, 1985, where he explained the 
causes behind the country’s recession and potential solutions. When it came to 
reducing CPF contributions, Mr Goh Chok Tong argued that it would be wiser 
to lower costs by cutting savings for the future rather than taking from workers’ 
current disposable income.22
Tripartism was key to resolving the impasse, as both unions and employers 
sought to find common ground in tackling the economic recession. Four days 
after Mr Goh Chok Tong’s discussions with the unions, The Straits Times reported 
that NTUC had accepted the CPF cuts. Speaking to reporters, then-NTUC 
Secretary-General Mr Ong Teng Cheong, said: “The severity and urgency of the 
problem requires a concerted effort by all Singaporeans. Temporary sacrifices 
must be shared by all. If we stand united, we can overcome our problems more 
quickly.”23 His sentiments were echoed by then-Acting Minister for Labour  Chapter 4: Wage Woes64 65
Charting Our PathMr Lee Yock Suan in 1986, who said in Parliament: “When we first discussed this 
issue, most of the Ministers in Cabinet, including myself, were strongly against 
any cut in the employer’s CPF because we know it is the pay of the workers, 
and we should not touch it except as a last resort. As the months passed by and 
the economic situation got worse and worse…we realised that we should not 
stick to that position. It is better for us to take a cut in the savings than (to)  
sacrifice jobs.”24
Former NTUC Secretary-General Mr Lim Boon Heng said in 2022 that the 
Government’s promise to restore CPF contribution rates once the economy 
recovered helped convince the unionists. Despite the difficulty of the situation, 
Mr Lim Boon Heng saw it as a crucial incident which helped strengthen 
Singapore’s now-robust tripartism. “That episode is one of the fundamental 
shared experiences of Singaporeans. Unions and workers, employers, and the 
Government are going through a crisis together, coming up with a solution 
that works, and also demonstrating to unions and workers that there will be  
fair play.”25
For Mr Ong Yen Her, the NWC played a crucial part in Singapore’s recovery, 
because it gave the unions confidence that, despite the big wage and CPF 
contribution cuts, the tripartite partners had workers’ interests at heart. This 
was particularly tricky given that the NWC had already issued wage increment 
guidelines earlier in 1985 before the recession hit. “Thankfully, the unions could 
accept the cuts because they trusted the tripartite system,” he said.
Reforming Wages for More Flexibility
One of the key recommendations the EC gave was to make wages more flexible. 
This would mark the first time the Government took on wage reforms in a 
structural manner, and the NWC, which had moved its secretariat to the MOL, 
took on the role of studying how to get it done.26In April 1986, the NWC set up the Subcommittee on Wage Reform. After  
extensive research, the subcommittee concluded that wage structures in 
Singapore had to change in several ways to become more flexible. The reforms 
included ensuring that wages reflected the value of the job and did not exceed 
productivity growth, while retaining a measure of income stability for workers. 
Wage increases had to account for company profitability and individual 
performance, and need not be permanent.
With these factors in mind, the subcommittee announced its recommendation 
for a flexible wage system in November 1986. The system would contain the 
following main features:
1. A basic wage to reflect the value of the job and to provide a measure of  
stability to the worker’s income.
2. An annual wage supplement (AWS) of one month’s basic wage which may  
be adjusted under exceptional circumstances.
3. A variable wage component based on company and individual performance  
of about two months’ basic wage which could be paid yearly or half-yearly.
4. A small service increment in recognition of a worker’s length of service,  
loyalty and experience.
5. Annual wage negotiation on the basis that the total wage growth is slower  
than productivity improvement.
6. Periodic review of salaries not more often than once-in-three-year intervals  
and preferably coinciding with the renewal of collective agreements.27
At the time, performance bonuses made up only a small part of a worker’s 
total pay package, with the civil service not having any performance bonuses 
at all. Introducing variable components in wages would provide flexibility to a 
company’s wage structure, allowing them to more easily reward and incentivise 
performance, while also being able to respond more quickly to changing 
business conditions.Chapter 4: Wage Woes66 67
Charting Our PathAccording to then-SNEF President Mr Stephen Lee, who was part of the 
subcommittee, Singapore’s wage system was heavily seniority-based, leading 
to a large gap between the salaries of older workers compared to younger ones. 
A key goal of the exercise was to lower the wage ratio between the younger and 
senior workers. “We wanted to lower the wage ratio to about 1.5. The thinking 
behind this was that if it takes one year to learn a job, being there for 30 years 
does not really add a lot more in terms of contribution. We looked at what was 
in the market, because we had an annual wage increase exercise, and realised 
that some of the wage ratios were very high, maybe about 2.2 to 2.5 at the time,” 
he said.28
This would also help to keep older workers’ wage expectations in line with their 
productivity, so that they would remain employable. Speaking in Parliament 
in 1987 after wage reform recommendations were accepted, Mr Lee Yock Suan 
said that adjusting the wage structure would help workers above the age of 55 
continue working despite a potentially lower salary.29 The Government accepted 
these recommendations in December 1986.
By 1990, a survey by SNEF revealed that 72 per cent of its members in the private 
sector had adopted flexible wage models, with 92 per cent of these members 
satisfied with its results.30 Looking back, Mr Lee Yock Suan said in an interview 
for this book: “The wage reform to introduce a flexible wage system was widely 
accepted. It was realised that future CPF cuts should not be depended upon to 
get the economy out of recession. Workers needed their CPF savings for old age, 
housing and hospitalisation needs. Instead, future wage increases should be 
commensurate with productivity gains and the wage structure should include 
flexible components which can be cut in the event of a recession.”31
The move towards more flexible wages was a crucial step to ensuring that 
Singapore’s workers and companies remained competitive throughout the business cycles, building resilience in Singapore’s economy. It is a key virtue 
that would continue to sustain Singapore’s economic growth over the next  
few decades.
Singapore’s wage reform in 1986 would not be its last. Another revamp was 
announced in 2003 after the 2003 SARS outbreak, which called for companies 
to reward their workers based on business performance and recovery from the 
crisis in order to promote wage flexibility (see Chapter 7).
During a speech at the National Tripartite Conference on Wage Restructuring in 
2004, then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Hsien Loong noted that the 1986 wage reform 
exercise was crucial in keeping Singapore afloat amid its first recession, but it 
was not enough to carry Singapore forward after its more recent crises. Referring 
to the new challenges Singapore was facing, he said: “So the old escalator is 
broken, and we are now on a roller coaster ride, full of ups and downs, a lot more 
challenging, but nevertheless rewarding provided we psychologically prepare 
ourselves for the ups and downs, and fix our wage system to work properly on 
this new ride.”32Chapter 4: Wage Woes68 69
Charting Our PathManaging
anAgeing Workforce
Singapore’s population is ageing fast. According to a 2024 report 
by the National Population and Talent Division, the proportion of 
citizens aged 65 and above is increasing, and at a faster rate compared 
to the previous decade. By 2030, one in four citizens will fall into this 
age group, up from about one in eight in 2014.1
At the same time, the country is experiencing a “great baby drought”, 
as one newspaper article put it.2 In 2023, there were 28,877 citizen 
births, 5.1 per cent fewer than the preceding year.3 The resident total 
fertility rate also fell below 1 for the first time to 0.97 in 2023.4
Taken together, the low fertility rate and ageing population present 
what Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office Ms Indranee Rajah termed 
“twin demographic challenges”.5 If left unaddressed, businesses and Spotlight chapters highlight key topics that span multiple eras, and how 
MOM took unique approaches to address them.
 This spotlight traces how the Ministry tackled demographic challenges 
over the past decades, and took steps to increase workforce longevity 
and improve retirement adequacy.livelihoods could be adversely impacted. As Minister for Manpower 
Dr Tan See Leng noted in Parliament in 2024, Singapore could lose its 
lustre for businesses and talent as resident workforce growth hits a 
plateau or starts to decline. In turn, this could mean fewer quality jobs 
created for Singaporeans, and stagnant incomes.6 “You have seen this 
story play out in other mature economies, whether in Europe, Asia 
or elsewhere,” he said. “However, Singapore has a chance to write a 
different story.”
Since the early 1980s, MOM has been trying to do just that. By 1982, it 
had already begun to study the challenges associated with an ageing 
workforce, subsequently taking steps to increase workforce longevity 
– notably through retirement age legislation. This allowed Singapore 
to harness the potential of its ageing workforce, with life expectancy 
at birth for residents increasing from 61.1 years in 1957 to 83.0 years 
in 2023 – one of the highest in the world.7
But increasing workforce longevity is not enough. More recently, 
the tripartite partners have espoused the concept of “productive 
longevity”, that is, for workers to remain active and valued 
contributors to the economy even as they age.8 Given the improved 
education, income, and occupation profiles of seniors, they are in 
a good position to do so, with businesses also standing to benefit 
from their accumulated experience and expertise. In fact, productive 
longevity underpinned the recommendations made in 2019 by the 
Tripartite Workgroup on Older Workers, which was convened to 
study policy options on how to strengthen support for senior workers.
Beyond setting out recommendations, however, the report also Spotlight 2: Managing an Ageing Workforce70 71
Charting Our Pathreflected a deeper philosophy regarding the role of senior workers in 
the workforce. Said then-Minister for Manpower Mrs Josephine Teo 
in 2019 after the report was published: “It is a political choice to treat 
our ageing workforce as an opportunity and not a burden, to enable 
our people to contribute as long as they wish…We allocate resources 
and update policy to support this choice.”9
As life expectancy increases, another issue that MOM has to pay 
attention to is retirement adequacy. In other words, how to ensure 
that people have sufficient savings to support a longer lifespan. 
The CPF – a mandatory social security savings scheme that helps 
Singaporeans build up their nest egg throughout their working lives 
– has been progressively refined and updated over the years by MOM 
and the CPF Board, to help retirement savings keep pace with longer 
lifespans.
This spotlight covers key decisions MOM made since it began 
preparing to meet the challenges and seize the opportunities 
presented by an ageing workforce. Such decisions include the 
introduction of retirement age legislation in 1993, which saw a 
minimum retirement age of 60 being implemented for the first time, 
as well as the introduction of CPF LIFE, a national annuity scheme, 
in 2009. These changes have not always been straightforward ones 
to make, mired as they are in political and social sensitivities. But the 
imperative is clear: Singapore must seize the opportunities presented 
by an ageing workforce.Retirement Age: Legislate or Not?
The issue of a retirement age had cropped up as early as 1968, when 
the Government attempted to impose an upper limit on the age of 
the workforce in the Employment Bill passed that year. Clause 15 of 
the Bill read: “No employer shall employ a person who has attained 
the age of fifty-five years without the prior approval in writing of the 
Commissioner (for Labour).”10
However, as then-Minister for Labour Mr S. Rajaratnam clarified 
during the reading of the Bill in response to strong pushback from 
other Members of Parliament: “Clause 15…was made to ensure that 
the unproductive and inefficient do not continue in employment 
at the expense of more productive and able youngsters.”11 In other 
words, its objective was not to establish a minimum retirement 
age, but to ensure that high standards of workforce productivity  
were maintained.
There was to be a significant shift in mindset by the 1980s. By then, 
it was becoming clear that the typical retirement age of 55 years 
old – established by the British in 1955 when life expectancies were 
shorter – was a limiting one.12 People in Singapore were living longer, 
and resident life expectancies had risen by more than a decade 
from 61.1 years at birth in 1957 to 72.1 years in 1980.13 The relatively 
early retirement of workers was therefore contributing to a tight  
labour market, exacerbated by Singapore’s economic recovery post-
1985 recession.Spotlight 2: Managing an Ageing Workforce72 73
Charting Our PathOne option was to raise the retirement age. This was the 
recommendation of the Committee on the Problems of the Aged, 
convened in 1982 by the Government to study the implications of an 
ageing population. Led by then-Minister for Health Mr Howe Yoon 
Chong, the Committee proposed in 1984: “The customary retirement 
age should be deferred as far as possible…The National Trades Union 
Congress should encourage their constituent trade unions to raise the 
retirement age first to 60 and later to 65.”14
Notably, the Committee recommended raising the CPF withdrawal 
age first to 60 and later to 65. “At present, workers are allowed to 
withdraw their CPF savings in a lump sum at the age of 55. If this 
policy is retained, it will mitigate against efforts to encourage workers 
to continue working beyond 55 to at least 65,” the Committee’s  
report stated.15
But the recommendation to raise the CPF withdrawal age drew fire 
from the public. One letter to The Straits Times in 1984 read: “...the 
CPF balance is strictly the money of CPF members who have already 
done their part towards the nation’s development…They have 
the right to enjoy the fruits of their labour and savings after 55.”16  
Mr Howe Yoon Chong acknowledged in Parliament in 1984 that 
“the public’s reactions and sentiments against this proposal were 
vehement”.17
Another option to ease the manpower crunch was to relax foreign 
manpower policy and allow more foreign workers into Singapore. In 
fact, MOL – as MOM was then known – was facing increasing pressure from businesses to do just that. But the hiring of foreign manpower 
could not go on forever (see Chapter 9). “Unless we look for ways 
to reduce our use of unskilled foreign workers permanently, we will 
continue to face the problem of labour shortages six years from today,” 
said then-Minister for Labour Professor S. Jayakumar in a speech 
delivered in 1984.18 He noted that six years prior, the Government had 
allowed the hiring of foreigners from countries other than Malaysia 
in response to requests from manpower-strapped employers. “Today, 
the problem still persists,” he said.
The Government also had another concern: productivity. In 1986, 
the Economic Committee – convened in 1985 to chart a way forward 
for Singapore post-1985 recession – published its report titled New 
Directions. Said the report: “…more than half of the growth in our 
workforce in 1980-1984 was accounted for by Work Permit holders. 
Such an inflow of foreign workers cannot continue indefinitely…Future 
economic growth will therefore depend on productivity increases and 
improvements in business efficiency.”19 The decision was therefore 
made to raise the retirement age.
A Nuanced Approach
Given that the labour market had thus far allowed for flexibility 
of negotiation between employer and employee on the retirement 
age, there were some concerns that legislation would amount to an 
overstep. The Committee on the Problems of the Aged had advised 
against it, arguing that “employers regard legislation as an erosion 
of their management prerogative”.20 Then-Minister for Labour  Spotlight 2: Managing an Ageing Workforce74 75
Charting Our PathDr Lee Boon Yang, who presided over the enactment of retirement age 
legislation in 1993, also revealed in an interview for this book that he 
shared concerns of other MPs that doing so would mean “interfering 
too much in the labour market (and) the freedom of negotiation 
between workers and employers”.21 But the issue of having the bulk of 
workers in each cohort dropping out at the age of 55 still needed to be 
tackled, for both economic and social reasons.
MOL therefore initially opted for a more discretionary approach.  
A three-year promotional period began in 1988, which saw the Ministry 
engaging companies and unions to encourage them to voluntarily raise 
the retirement age from 55 to 60. But not all companies were on board. 
Mr Ong Yen Her, former MOM Divisional Director, Labour Relations 
and Workplaces Division, who was representing the Government, 
had to think on his feet. It was apparent to him then that forcing the 
matter could backfire and cause employers to get rid of senior workers 
earlier instead.
“Through consultation with employers and unions to address 
employers’ concerns, an innovative idea was surfaced to gradually 
phase in the higher retirement age to over 60 over a period of five 
years,” he said in an interview for this book.22 This meant that workers 
approaching 55 would retire at 56, while those approaching 54 would 
retire at 57, and so on. Those at 51 would retire at 60. With this  
“rolling-in” approach, “employers were able to accept 60 as the 
new retirement age in five years while senior workers also had the 
opportunity to work longer with a regular income if they wanted to”, 
he added.However, there were limits to the voluntary solution. While the 
results in the unionised sector were promising, with close to half  
(47.5 per cent) of companies raising their retirement age to 60 and 
beyond, it was a different story in the non-unionised sector, where 
only 6.2 per cent of companies had done the same.23 The results were a 
strong basis for the argument that if the retirement age was to shift, a 
harder approach would be required – in this case, legislation, said Mr 
Ong Yen Her.
MOL understood that retirement age was considered a sensitive 
issue to Singaporeans, because it was perceived to be tied to the 
CPF withdrawal age. Thus, it decided to build consensus around a 
statutory minimum retirement age with the tripartite partners, and 
thoroughly prepare the ground for it. Speaking on efforts to engage 
businesses and workers in the early 1990s, Dr Lee Boon Yang said in 
an interview for this book: “We organised sessions with union leaders 
and met employers through the auspices of SNEF. We explained to 
them that we are moving ahead to introduce legislation for a minimum 
retirement age and sought their feedback...Through these sessions, 
we learnt that the prime thing was to de-link CPF withdrawal from 
the retirement age.”
“We also learnt that a higher retirement age could increase business 
costs, because of the entrenched seniority-based wage scale,” he 
added. “We had to constantly remind union members that, trust 
us, we are not going to change the CPF withdrawal age. On the  
seniority-based wage scale, we accepted employers’ feedback and  Spotlight 2: Managing an Ageing Workforce76 77
Charting Our Pathsaid that if employers employed a worker beyond age 55, we would 
need to make some adjustments...Because if we don’t do anything, it 
will make us less competitive with higher wage costs.”24
With the main points of contention addressed, the Retirement Age 
Bill was passed in Parliament on April 12, 1993, two years after the 
conclusion of the promotional period. During the reading of the Bill, 
Dr Lee Boon Yang reassured Singaporeans that “the raising of the 
retirement age would not affect the existing CPF withdrawal age 
which will still remain at 55”.25 To address the concerns of higher cost 
of employing senior workers, a 5 per cent reduction in employers’ CPF 
contribution for employees aged 55 to 60 was concurrently effected.
The Retirement Age Act (RAA), as it was known, established for the 
first time a minimum retirement age of 60, effective immediately, 
with provisions to further raise it to 67 within 10 years. This would 
put Singapore on par with Scandinavian countries, which were widely 
considered to be the most progressive in terms of labour market 
policies at the time.
Significantly, the RAA was enacted without the demonstrations 
that plagued other countries. This was a result of strong tripartite 
participation in the decision-making process – the tripartite partners 
became part of the solution instead of being part of the problem,  
as seen in many industry disputes in the past, said Mr Ong Yen Her.Impasse: The Re-employment Solution
While the RAA had been implemented successfully, later attempts 
to raise the minimum retirement age hit roadblocks. Negotiations 
conducted by the Tripartite Committee on the Extension of the 
Retirement Age, which was convened in 1995 to study how a target 
of 67 could be reached, quickly reached a stalemate. Employers were 
worried about costs, and suggested wage cuts of 20 per cent for senior 
workers to mitigate the effects of a seniority-based wage system.  
This was swiftly rejected by NTUC.26
Attempting to force the matter would likely result in a poor outcome 
for all parties. “A lot of companies would have difficulty complying 
with the requirement and some may even move elsewhere. In the 
end, we compromised from 65 to 62,” said Mr Ong Yen Her. This was 
implemented in 1999. Although senior employees saw reductions 
in their CPF contribution rates,27 potential wage cuts of up to 10 
per cent,28 and reduced benefits, they in turn benefitted from more 
protections when it came to age-related dismissals. After that, MOL 
hit an impasse, with employers unwilling to accept any further raising 
of the minimum retirement age.
A visit to Japan would lead to a breakthrough. In the early 2000s, the 
Japanese Trade Union Confederation (RENGO) invited a Singapore 
delegation to the country. It was a timely opportunity to study how a 
similar urbanised Asian nation like Japan had tackled the issue of an 
ageing workforce.Spotlight 2: Managing an Ageing Workforce78 79Charting Our Path
“Every country talks about raising their retirement age, but in 
Japan, they pursued the direction of re-employment age,” said  
then-Minister for Manpower Mr Lim Swee Say in 2017. “The key 
difference between retirement and re-employment age is that when 
you raise the retirement age, the expectation is for (the) same job, same 
pay…Whereas when Japan introduced the idea of re-employment age, 
the concept is, not necessarily the same job, not necessarily the same 
pay.”29 The difference was subtle but crucial. Under re-employment 
legislation, employers would be legally obligated to re-employ 
workers past the minimum retirement age – but they would have the 
leeway to adjust contracts and job scope.
A healthy runway was prepared for re-employment to take root, 
with the first signals given in 2007. During then-Prime Minister  
Mr Lee Hsien Loong’s National Day Rally speech that year, he noted 
that re-employment was a “better approach” due to the flexibility 
it offered to employers and employees. He also clearly stated that  
re-employment legislation would be implemented by January 1, 2012.30
In the meantime, tripartite partners engaged employers and 
workers extensively to come up with a Tripartite Advisory on the  
Re-employment of Older Workers in 2008, followed by a set of 
Tripartite Guidelines on the Re-employment of Older Employees  
in 2010.31
Notably, the Tripartite Guidelines included innovations such as 
the Employment Assistance Payment (EAP), a one-off payment 
to employees in the event that employers were unable to offer  
re-employment. Prior to the EAP being mooted, employers felt that it would be unfair for them to be required to create jobs for the sake of 
continuing to hire an employee, especially when there was no need for 
it, said Mr Gan Kim Yong, who was Minister for Manpower between 
2009 and 2011, in an interview for this book.32 Yet, it was also unfair to 
employees who would have their employment suddenly terminated.
The matter had been in discussion for a while, but no conclusion was 
in sight. This impasse ended up being settled in the most unlikely of 
places: in the back of a van.
While on a work trip in the Swiss city of Geneva, Mr Gan Kim Yong, 
then-NTUC Secretary-General Mr Lim Swee Say, and then-SNEF 
President Mr Stephen Lee put their heads together to crack the issue. 
They huddled together en route to another destination, eventually 
coming to a consensus that paved the way for broad agreement 
between the tripartite partners. The EAP was the “final hurdle” that 
the tripartite partners had to cross before it was “all systems go” for 
the re-employment legislation, said Mr Gan Kim Yong.
“The EAP is not so much retirement compensation. Its starting point 
is that employers should try to provide re-employment for the worker. 
If they cannot, then they should help the worker find a job,” he added.
For employees, the EAP is to “provide some financial support for 
a period of time, so that they can find another job…That’s why it is 
called an Employment Assistance Payment, to assist workers to find 
a job if they want to continue to work,” he said. Such a mechanism, 
together with a well-established approach for the settlement of 
disputes via tripartite guidelines, helped to ensure the smooth and Spotlight 2: Managing an Ageing Workforce80 81
Charting Our Patheffective implementation of re-employment legislation.
As a result, Singapore became the second country in the world after Japan 
to implement a re-employment age (then set at 65) with the Retirement 
and Re-employment Act in 2012, which was enacted smoothly.
This was complemented by efforts to change hearts and minds on 
the ground. Since the early 2000s, schemes have been available to 
employers to encourage efforts to create age-friendly workplaces. 
Most recently, the Part-Time Re-employment Grant was extended 
from 2023 to 2025 to support employers in providing part-time  
re-employment opportunities and flexible work arrangements for 
senior workers. Resources have also been expanded for workers 
looking to upskill themselves through platforms such as SkillsFuture. 
These help to support legislation by encouraging attitudes and 
practices to shift.
Extending the employment age went beyond addressing the tight 
labour market, noted Mr Gan Kim Yong. “It’s also important to keep 
senior workers who are contributing and still productive, because 
they have the benefit of experience – especially in jobs that are highly 
skilled…Sometimes the skill comes not from studying or training but 
from job experience. I think it’s important for us to have a way to 
preserve that and tap on the experience of senior workers.”
All in all, moves to raise the retirement and re-employment ages have 
enabled more seniors in Singapore to remain engaged in the workforce. 
In 2012, the employment rate of residents aged 55 to 64 was 64 per 
cent.33 This figure had jumped by over six percentage points to 70 per cent by 2022.34 The most recent figures put Singapore almost on par 
with Germany, where the employment rate for the same age group 
was around 73 per cent in 2022, and even above the Organisation 
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) total of 62.9 
per cent that same year.35 It is also worth noting that in 2023, more 
than nine in 10 seniors in Singapore who were willing and eligible to 
continue working were offered re-employment.36
Another way to frame the issue, as Mr Ong Yen Her said, is that 
Singapore has enabled a total of 13 cohorts of senior workers to stay 
on in the workforce by raising the retirement age norm from 55 to 
68, which was the re-employment age as of 2022. “These are people 
with experience. In terms of manpower resources, we are able to 
retain this additional source,” he added. And as the retirement and  
re-employment ages are gradually increased, this number is only set 
to rise.
CPF LIFE
An ageing population also presents the major challenge of retirement 
adequacy. Advances in healthcare, along with better standards of 
living, have pushed up the life expectancy of Singapore residents, 
increasing their odds of outliving their retirement savings. In 2007, 
the resident life expectancy at birth stood at 80.6 years old, an increase 
of about 4.5 years since 1993, when the resident life expectancy stood 
at 76.1.37 But that year, only about 40 per cent of CPF members were 
able to set aside their Minimum Sum,38 which refers to the amount set 
aside for retirement needs when a CPF member turns 55.Spotlight 2: Managing an Ageing Workforce82 83
Charting Our PathThere was a growing realisation that more had to be done to help 
Singaporeans in their retirement years. One solution was to raise 
the Draw-Down Age – since renamed the Payout Eligibility Age – 
which referred to the age at which CPF members would be able to 
start their retirement payouts. Indeed, the Payout Eligibility Age was 
progressively raised from 62 to 63, to hit 65 by 2018. But this did not 
completely eradicate the risk. “This is what the insurance people call 
‘longevity risk’,” said Mr Lee Hsien Loong in his National Day Rally 
speech in 2007, when he also announced changes to the Minimum 
Sum Draw-Down Age. “Normally, you think of dying as a risk, but 
here, living is a risk; financially, it is.”39
It was against this backdrop that the idea of a national annuity scheme 
was surfaced. “We know that half of us will outlive our Minimum Sum 
after drawing it down for 20 years,” said then-Minister for Manpower 
Dr Ng Eng Hen in 2007. “The problem is that we do not know which 
half.” He noted that another potential solution was to extend the 
Minimum Sum (draw down) period, except that would necessarily 
come with lower monthly payouts. “Longevity insurance is a better 
solution,” he added. “It will guarantee you a monthly income for life.”40 
In 2007, the National Longevity Insurance Committee was convened 
to look into the matter. The Committee’s recommendations were 
eventually accepted by the Government, which announced in 2008 
that Singapore would introduce a national annuity scheme, named 
CPF Lifelong Income For the Elderly (CPF LIFE). CPF LIFE, which was 
designed to provide lifelong monthly payouts to CPF members during 
their retirement years, was set to serve as the default scheme instead 
of the CPF Minimum Sum Scheme by 2013. Notably, CPF LIFE was open to all CPF members – regardless of whether they had met their 
Minimum Sum.
“It was the missing piece of the CPF system,” said former MOM 
Permanent Secretary Mr Aubeck Kam in an interview for this book.41 
A key consideration for CPF LIFE was maintaining flexibility so that 
the scheme could be tailored to individual needs. Initially, it featured 
four plans, which differed in terms of how much CPF members would 
receive in terms of monthly payouts, as well as how much they 
would leave behind for their loved ones. After receiving feedback 
that members preferred a more straightforward set of options, MOM 
decided to simplify the plans by refining them into two options: the 
Standard Plan, which combined the best features of the two most 
popular plans, and the Basic Plan, which remained unchanged.42
But concerns remained about how CPF LIFE could support members 
given rising costs of living. In 2016, a CPF Advisory Panel recommended 
a third plan – the CPF LIFE Escalating Plan. This would provide 
progressively larger payouts to CPF members to help them preserve 
their purchasing power. There was also an alternative idea to have a 
plan with payouts pegged to inflation. However, this was not adopted 
due to the Panel’s concern that CPF members would have less certainty 
given that future payouts would fluctuate yearly.43 The Escalating 
Plan was eventually rolled out in 2018, joining a slate of options which  
The Business Times referred to in a 2024 article as “the best annuity in 
the market”.44Spotlight 2: Managing an Ageing Workforce84 85
Charting Our PathLooking Ahead: Silver Linings
The challenges of an ageing population are real, and yet, there are 
positive signs that more employers and workers are seeing age as a boon. 
A survey conducted by The Economist Intelligence Unit in 2018 found 
that business leaders in Singapore are hoping that younger workers 
learn from the professionalism and expertise of their senior colleagues, 
and believe in their creativity and ability to master new technologies.45 
More firms are also beginning to recognise that retaining senior workers 
means retaining their experience, and could help beat the talent crunch 
by better utilising local manpower resources.
How could legislation keep up? When the Tripartite Workgroup 
on Older Workers was convened in 2019 to consider next moves for 
retirement and re-employment legislation, one major consideration 
was whether to raise the minimum retirement age alongside the  
re-employment age. “Keep in mind that because we had transitioned 
to raising the re-employment age in 2012, the assumption at the time 
was that we would not touch the minimum retirement age,” said 
Mrs Josephine Teo in an interview for this book.46 There was also 
the concern that employers would attempt to circumvent legislation  
by letting workers go even before they reached the minimum 
retirement age.
But the Government eventually took the decision in 2019 to 
progressively raise the retirement and re-employment ages to 65 and 
70 respectively by 2030. “It was a recognition that over the years, senior 
participation in the workforce had risen steadily and positively,” said Mrs Josephine Teo, adding that both employers and workers had come 
around to realising the fruitfulness of senior workers’ contributions. 
More employers were also recognising the value that senior workers 
brought to their company, and re-employing them beyond the 
minimum retirement age. In fact, between 2022 and 2023, some 98 per 
cent of professionals, managers, executives, and technicians (PMETs) 
were offered re-employment – an overwhelming majority.47
The timeline for implementing the new minimum retirement and 
re-employment ages was a point of contention among the tripartite 
partners, revealed former SNEF President Dr Robert Yap in an 
interview for this book.48 “It is a transition that will take time for 
businesses, and many were not fully prepared for a higher retirement 
and re-employment age. If their workforce happens to comprise 20 to 
30 per cent senior workers, it is a big problem for them to (implement 
the higher ages) in a short amount of time.”
From SNEF’s perspective, it was better to implement the revised 
legislation later to give businesses time to adapt. “Timing is crucial. 
We know the proportion of senior workers in the workforce will 
increase over time,” said Dr Robert Yap. “If we support businesses 
more as they approach the later stages of this transition, it could ease 
the burden. That’s why, from SNEF’s perspective, we felt it made sense 
to take a ‘later is better’ approach.”
He added that the Government was in favour of an earlier schedule 
for implementation, one that would prepare businesses and workers 
for the future. “There was this contention between ‘earlier’ and ‘later’,  Spotlight 2: Managing an Ageing Workforce86 87
Charting Our Pathhe said. “In the end, we managed to reach a satisfactory compromise.” 
This would be the timeline for the progressive raising of the retirement 
and re-employment age by 2030.
At the same time, more Singaporeans are achieving retirement 
adequacy. In 2022, almost seven in ten active CPF members aged 55 
years old set aside their Basic Retirement Sum (BRS), compared to 
about 66 per cent in 2020.49 Funds under the BRS will provide members 
with monthly payouts to cover basic living expenses. Retirement 
adequacy was also a key consideration under Forward SG, a nationwide 
engagement exercise launched in 2022 to refresh Singapore’s social 
compact. The Forward SG report outlined schemes, both new and 
existing, that the Government has launched to support “Young 
Seniors”, referring to those in their fifties and sixties, and seniors.50 
Such schemes include the Silver Support Scheme, a significant plank 
in the Government’s retirement support for citizens.
Introduced in 2016, the Silver Support Scheme targets the bottom 
20 per cent of Singaporeans aged 65 and above, with some support 
also extended to the next 10 per cent of seniors.51 The scheme helps to 
support senior lower-wage workers and homemakers who do not have 
enough saved for retirement because they earned low wages during 
their prime working years or became the primary caregivers of their 
households, engaging in unpaid domestic work. Under the scheme, 
eligible seniors receive a quarterly cash supplement, which was raised 
in 2025. Close to 290,000 Singaporeans are expected to benefit from 
the enhanced payouts,52 up from the 152,000 seniors who benefitted 
from the scheme in 2017.53In 2024, the Government also introduced the Majulah Package for 
Young Seniors. The package aims to help less well-off Singaporeans 
born in 1973 or earlier cope with increasing financial stressors, such as 
the need to care for ageing parents as well as their children.54
“We cannot stop ageing,” the Forward SG report acknowledged.  
“But the way we grow old – the state of our health and the quality 
of life in our senior years – is something that we, as a society, can 
positively impact together.”Spotlight 2: Managing an Ageing Workforce89Era 3
Developing A 
Skilled Capital91Singapore entered the 1990s with optimism. The economic reforms following 
the 1985 recession had taken effect, launching the economy into another 
period of growth. The leadership transition in the country was also in full swing. 
In 1990, Singapore’s founding Prime Minister, Mr Lee Kuan Yew, handed over 
the reins to Mr Goh Chok Tong in a seamless process that assured investors of 
political stability in the country. The new Prime Minister wanted to elevate the 
standards of living in Singapore, as the Government sought to build a kinder, 
gentler society.1
Externally, Singapore was poised to benefit from a fast-expanding global 
economy as the Cold War drew to a close. With the United States advancing 
its agenda of free trade, the world was beating a clear path to globalisation. 
Singapore, with its export-oriented economy, rode this wave of economic 
optimism as it began developing multiple Free Trade Agreements with many 
of its key trading partners, including ASEAN and the US, later established in the 
early 2000s.2Chapter 5: Blueprint for a Future-Ready Singapore
Chapter 5
Blueprint for a Future-Ready Singapore92 93
Charting Our PathThe global economy was evolving, transformed by globalisation and the rapid 
advancement of computerisation, the Internet, and the mechanisation and 
automation of work. To power Singapore’s economy into the 21st century, MOM 
had to develop the country’s labour force and prepare it for the changes and 
challenges in the new millennium.
From MOL to MOM
This new task fell to the MOL, on top of its existing responsibilities, which 
included overseeing the labour market, foreign manpower, and health and safety 
issues, among many others. Several ministries and Government agencies had 
previously worked on different aspects of manpower planning, development, 
and management. For example, EDB was responsible for anticipating the 
manpower needs of new investments; the Productivity and Standards Board was 
tasked with skills and productivity upgrading; and the International Manpower 
Programme under EDB and the Foreign Talent Unit under the Prime Minister’s 
Office were responsible for talent attraction.
The Government decided to consolidate all these functions under MOL.  
To reflect the evolution, MOL changed its name to the Ministry of Manpower 
(MOM) on April 1, 1998.3
Building on the foundations of its predecessor, MOM expanded its role to take 
on the strategic mission of developing Singapore’s national manpower strategy. 
“As a central agency, the new Ministry will be in a better position to coordinate 
all critical manpower planning and management issues,” it explained in a  
press release.4 “Manpower is Singapore’s only resource. It is also a major limiting 
factor in our growth and could become an impediment to new investments and 
business expansion. We must therefore fully develop our manpower resources 
so as to hone our competitive edge and remain relevant in an increasingly 
competitive global environment. Hence, Singapore needs to develop constantly new capabilities and competencies,” noted the press release.5
One critical area that the Government zoomed in on was the development of 
a globally competitive and skilled workforce. This required a comprehensive 
strategy on manpower. “By adopting an integrated approach, we intend to 
develop a world-class workforce with capabilities and skills to succeed in the 
globalised knowledge economy,” added the press release.6
“The thinking then was that if people are your greatest resource and the critical 
factor in the new economy, then it made more sense for the Ministry to be more 
holistic,” said Mr Moses Lee, then-Permanent Secretary of MOL till 1997, in an 
interview for this book. “That was the reason behind bringing all the different 
aspects of manpower policy, planning, development, and training under  
one roof.”7
Looking back, Dr Lee Boon Yang, who was Minister for Labour and then Minister 
for Manpower between 1993 and 2003, explained that something had to be 
done to transform Singapore’s economy to keep up with global shifts.8 “MOM 
was established to take on this role and reposition Singapore to compete and 
stay relevant,” he said, in an interview for this book.9
For Mr Ong Yen Her, former MOM Divisional Director, Labour Relations and 
Workplaces Division, the evolution was a key milestone in the Ministry’s 
history, marking a clear shift in its role. “MOL was mainly a regulatory agency 
then. But as we considered the name change, the dilemma was whether MOL 
was to be an economic or social ministry. We eventually decided that it should 
be an economic ministry with a social dimension,” he added.10
MOM would continue to manage Singapore’s workforce in all its social aspects, 
from workplace disputes to health and safety regulations. But it would now also 
take a more strategic approach in developing the country’s workforce, ensuring Chapter 5: Blueprint for a Future-Ready Singapore94 95
Charting Our Paththat the labour market functioned smoothly with a balance between economic 
and social objectives. 
The Ministry’s new name was well-received, with newspapers making  
light-hearted comments about the maternal implications of the acronym.11 
Other name suggestions included the Ministry of Human Resources, which was 
common in other countries like Malaysia and Indonesia, but was rejected as a 
way of differentiating Singapore’s ministry and its unique role from that of its 
regional counterparts.12 
“It was not common to have a ministry to champion manpower development 
at the time as it was not a big focus in our region,” said Dr Lee Boon Yang. “But 
Singapore felt the effect of manpower issues much more because of our small 
workforce, so we decided to lead the way.”13
Mapping Out the Future of Manpower
Soon after the name change, MOM embarked on a major exercise to chart the 
trajectory of the country’s manpower for the future. Called the Manpower 21 
Plan, MOM worked with its tripartite partners to develop a comprehensive 
blueprint that would elevate and develop Singapore’s labour force.14 A  
higher-skilled, globally competitive workforce would help businesses grow in 
the knowledge-based economy, and ultimately benefit Singaporeans through 
better jobs and workplaces. 
Dr Tan Chin Nam, who was then the Permanent Secretary for MOM, was named 
chairman of the Manpower 21 Steering Committee, which was formed on June 4, 
1998. It set up four subcommittees to study critical areas of manpower planning 
and development such as skills training and attracting foreign talent. The four 
committees, comprising 150 representatives, were:1. Manpower Development Committee
Tasked with formulating a national system of lifelong learning to maximise 
the potential of every Singaporean and develop a globally competitive 
workforce, it was chaired by Mr Lin Cheng Ton, then-CEO and Principal of 
Nanyang Polytechnic.
2. Manpower Unlimited Committee
The group, headed by Mr Cheah Kean Huat, then-Managing Director  
of Hewlett Packard, identified ways to tap global intellectual capital  
and manpower resources, augmenting Singapore’s capabilities and 
economic competitiveness.
3. Manpower Industry Committee  
The committee’s role was to view manpower as an industry and propose 
strategies to upgrade it. The manpower industry would include training 
infrastructure and providers, employment companies, and human resource 
firms. The committee was chaired by Mr Allan Pathmarajah, then-Executive 
Chairman of AJP Pte Ltd, a local telco company.
4. Workplace Environment Committee
Helmed by Mr Tan Kin Lian, then-CEO of NTUC Income, the committee 
sought to define the workplace of the future and determine how Singapore 
could best support the workplace environment to develop a globally 
competitive workforce.
“The tripartite partners said that this vision (for MOM) has to be in relation to 
how the world is changing and how Singapore would want to position itself  
to be able to make its contribution,” said Dr Tan Chin Nam, in an interview for 
this book.15Chapter 5: Blueprint for a Future-Ready Singapore96 97
Charting Our PathAt the launch of the Manpower 21 committees, Dr Lee Boon Yang said that a 
key focus of transformation was to prepare workers for the knowledge-based 
economy through constant upgrading and training, or in other words, lifelong 
learning. It was first mooted as an ideal for young Singaporeans by then-Prime 
Minister Mr Goh Chok Tong when he launched the “Thinking Schools, Learning 
Nation” (TSLN) vision in 1997. TSLN led to a curriculum review for schools 
across the primary to junior college levels, and the development of a more 
holistic education system which went beyond academic enrichment.16
The Manpower 21 Plan was to expand this vision beyond pre-employment 
education to include Singapore’s workforce. In his speech, Dr Lee Boon Yang 
noted that pre-employment education was important in developing Singapore’s 
workforce, but it would not be enough. “We need to create an equivalent  
in-employment education and training framework to continually enhance 
the knowledge and skills of our workers,” he said. The aim was to ensure the 
“lifelong employability” of the workforce, where workers would be able to “add 
value to every job that they do, and in every organisation that they work”. This 
meant that every worker had the potential to be developed, or as MOM put it in 
their philosophy: Every Singaporean is a talent.
“We will develop a long-term manpower architecture which allows all workers, 
from production workers to professionals, blue-collar workers to senior 
executives, to learn skills and enable all our partners in the industry to play key 
roles in making Singapore a talent capital,” said Dr Lee Boon Yang.17
With this vision in mind, the Manpower 21 committees began their work. 
Creating a strategy that would benefit every Singaporean meant working in 
collaboration with tripartite partners, and holding dialogue sessions with 
grassroots representatives and industry players like Keppel and Singapore 
Airlines. “There was no way MOM could map out a plan for the future on its 
own. We knew early on that we needed partnerships with unions and employers from different sectors to tap their experience, concerns, and ideas and get a 
clearer picture,” Dr Lee Boon Yang noted.18 Besides drawing on expertise within 
Singapore, the committees also sought views from abroad. They conducted 
study missions to Denmark, Hong Kong, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and 
the US, which were ahead in manpower development at the time. Committee 
members also met with foreign government officials, manpower development 
organisations, and prominent academics who studied labour markets in various 
countries to gain insights and learn from best practices.
A Manpower 21 International Advisory Programme was organised on  
February 8-9, 1999, for committee members and experts to meet. The two-day 
conference gave the four subcommittees a chance to review and critique their 
respective recommendations and share their knowledge through brainstorming 
discussions. In addition, the Steering Committee invited Dr Charles Handy, 
formerly with London Business School, and Dr Rosabeth Moss Kanter, from 
Harvard Business School, to share insights and thoughts on the report.
Nearly a year later, the Manpower 21 Steering Committee submitted its final 
recommendations to Dr Lee Boon Yang on August 4, 1999. Two days later,  
he accepted the recommendations and the plan was officially unveiled on 
August 31, 1999, by then-Deputy Prime Minister Mr Lee Hsien Loong.
Six Strategies, One Vision
Titled Vision of a Talent Capital, the Manpower 21 Plan sketched out a vision of 
the new economy, which it said would be built on a new foundation forged by 
knowledge, talent, industry, and wealth. Indeed, knowledge was going to be 
the key driving force of the 21st-century economy, with human and intellectual 
capital, rather than fixed assets, making up the real value of countries  
and companies.Chapter 5: Blueprint for a Future-Ready Singapore98 99
Charting Our PathThe plan underscored the importance of this new knowledge economy, 
emphasising that the workforce would be crucial in driving national 
productivity. It cited globalisation and information technology as primary 
catalysts for this restructuring of the global economy. As the generation, 
utilisation, and dissemination of knowledge became critical to wealth creation 
and sustained economic growth, Singapore had to position itself to excel in this 
evolving landscape. This meant equipping the workforce with the necessary 
skills to adapt to shifting industry needs. At the same time, the report added 
that Singapore needed to foster new workers’ skills to innovate and generate 
new products, markets, and wealth for the nation.19
Speaking in Parliament on October 12, 1999, during a debate on the President’s 
Address, Dr Lee Boon Yang said: “As we move towards a knowledge-based 
economy, the jobs are likely to be transformed into knowledge-intensive jobs. 
What this means is that while industries will need fewer people, these workers 
will be of much higher calibre, higher skilled, able to perform more valuable 
jobs, and earn higher wages. Singaporeans must begin to prepare for these 
changes now.”20
The Manpower 21 committee pointed out that Singapore had some way to go in 
building up its workforce with the right skills, quality, and mindset to support 
the demands of the new economy. It sat above Taiwan, Korea, and Malaysia in 
terms of productivity, but below Norway, Switzerland, the US, Japan, and Hong 
Kong. The Manpower 21 report showed that in 1998, 34 per cent of Singapore’s 
workforce was skilled, 28 per cent was semi-skilled and 38 per cent unskilled.21 
One of the goals of the Manpower 21 committee was to raise the proportion of 
skilled workers in Singapore to 65 per cent, with 20 per cent semi-skilled and  
15 per cent unskilled, within the next 10 to 15 years.22
Besides raising skills and productivity, Singapore had to ensure that its training 
systems and work environments promoted continual learning and flexibility, responded quickly to changing needs, encouraged workforce participation, 
and enabled the efficient deployment of resources. At the time, the country 
ranked poorly against more developed countries when it came to flexible 
work arrangements (FWAs), a reflection of Singapore’s less developed human 
resource infrastructure. Only 3.1 per cent of its workforce had part-time work 
arrangements, while 1.5 per cent had temporary work arrangements and less 
than 1 per cent had flexi-time arrangements. This contrasted with Japan’s 
figures of 23 per cent, 11 per cent, and 8.7 per cent respectively. Making FWAs 
more commonplace would help Singapore better utilise its small workforce and 
increase participation rates.23
In its executive summary, the Manpower 21 Plan stated: “There is an urgent 
need to formulate a manpower strategy to transform our skills and practices 
proactively to support our economic aspirations.”24 This would comprise six  
key strategies:
1) Manpower planning
The committee recommended setting up a National Manpower Council 
(NMC) to oversee national manpower strategies and targets. The council, 
which was set up in 2000, would facilitate discussions on talent development 
and deployment. Looking back on NMC’s role, Dr Tan Chin Nam said, “The 
process of sharing and co-creating the vision with the unions and employers 
gave them time to adjust and co-evolve together for a better tomorrow.”25 
An enhanced Manpower Information System was also mooted to provide 
relevant and timely labour information for all players in the labour market 
to respond quickly and effectively to market shifts.26
2) Lifelong learning
In response to a rapidly changing global economy where skills can become 
irrelevant more quickly, the committee suggested the concept of lifelong 
learning, and the development of a framework that would encourage  Chapter 5: Blueprint for a Future-Ready Singapore100 101
Charting Our Pathin-employment training and education for workers. Branded the School of 
Lifelong Learning, the framework included a National Skills Recognition 
System – which would help define skill competencies and certify learning 
achievements – on which today’s SkillsFuture programme was built.27 The 
framework called for a “1-Institute 2-Systems” approach for public training 
providers to support both pre-employment training for fresh graduates and 
continuing education and training for existing workers.
An enhanced Skills Development Fund and tax incentives for employers 
and individuals to engage in lifelong learning would further bolster efforts 
to train the workforce. Employees would be supported by a network of  
one-stop career centres, where information and counselling on training 
and career planning would be available. Lastly, a promotional programme, 
anchored by an annual Singapore Learning Festival, would help raise 
awareness about the benefits and urgency of lifelong learning.
One result of the committee’s recommendations was the Lifelong Learning 
Endowment Fund Act, passed in 2001, where an initial sum of S$500 million 
was set aside to support national skills training programmes. Speaking in 
Parliament at the reading of the Bill, Dr Lee Boon Yang said, “It (the fund) 
will finance efforts to encourage Singaporeans to engage in lifelong learning, 
and provide assistance and opportunities for them to do so. This will help 
Singaporeans to meet the needs of a knowledge-based economy and cope 
with the threat of structural unemployment.”28
3) Augmenting the talent pool
In a bid to leverage foreign talent and networks to overcome the country’s 
limited size and resources, the committee emphasised the need to augment 
the manpower pool at the higher end and reduce the economy’s dependence 
on low-skilled workers.To attract high-end global talent, it recommended developing a strategic 
marketing plan that captured the new spirit of Singapore, while expanding 
the operations of Contact Singapore, an agency established by MOM and 
EDB to attract foreign talent and overseas Singaporeans. An international 
talent recruitment website, programmes to enable new hires to work 
in overseas operations of Singapore companies, and a wide network of 
“Friends of Singapore” would also help extend the country’s reach.
On the other end of the skill spectrum, the committee recommended 
reviewing the allocation and deployment of low-skilled foreign workers 
among sectors, while establishing an efficient and effective foreign 
manpower management system to minimise the social costs to society.29
4) Transforming the work environment
As Singapore transitioned to a knowledge economy, the nature of work, 
workplaces, and workplace practices had to be aligned with new demands. 
The committee proposed adjusting work environments and arrangements 
to improve labour productivity and effectiveness, enhance business 
competitiveness, increase workforce participation rates, and allow the 
workforce to enjoy a better quality of life.
FWAs and job redesign were recommended to help workers keep pace with 
the nature of knowledge-based work and boost participation rates of women 
and older persons. Firms were also encouraged to adopt best practices in 
human resource management and development, as well as implement 
the Occupational Safety and Health Act, which was later replaced by the 
Workplace Safety and Health Act in 2006. Finally, the committee called for 
the professionalism, productivity, and job dignity of key domestic-based 
industries, such as the cleaning and security sectors, to be improved.30Chapter 5: Blueprint for a Future-Ready Singapore102 103
Charting Our Path5) Developing a vibrant manpower industry
While the manpower industry – comprising learning providers, manpower 
management services, and manpower recruitment and deployment 
services – was largely undeveloped previously, it would play a pivotal role 
in realising the vision of Singapore as a Talent Capital.
For example, to set up the School of Lifelong Learning, infrastructure 
for private training providers and curriculum developers was needed.  
Manpower management companies would be required to guide employers 
to adopt world-class human resource practices, and recruitment and 
deployment companies could contribute to an efficient and responsive 
labour market. In addition, the manpower industry would be a high-growth, 
knowledge-based service industry and contribute directly to Singapore’s 
positioning as a knowledge economy.31
6) Redefining partnerships
To make Manpower 21 a reality, the committee saw the need for MOM to 
work with stakeholders. These partnerships had to occur at several levels: 
at the national level among unions, employers, and the Government to build 
on the country’s strong tripartite foundation; at the industry level via the 
National Skills Council (NSC) and other industry councils to link industry 
players and policymakers; and among Government agencies for timely 
initiation and effective implementation of programmes.
MOM, as the championing agency for manpower, was to drive and 
coordinate the relevant initiatives. To support its role, the committee 
recommended that a dedicated Manpower Development Assistance Scheme 
be set up to help drive capability development and industry initiatives under  
Manpower 21.32Through these six strategies, MOM sought to upgrade Singapore’s workforce, 
aiming for a skilled and productive talent pool that would power the nation in 
the new millennium and place it among the world’s leading economies.
During a parliamentary debate on the President’s Address on October 12, 1999, 
Dr Lee Boon Yang called for cooperation to realise the Manpower 21 Plan.  
“The Manpower 21 strategy and programmes represent a blueprint or a road 
map. Workers, employers and the Government must travel along this road 
hand-in-hand so that we can arrive together at our common destination,”  
he said. “The road is not straight nor smooth. It is winding, runs uphill with 
many obstacles along the way. We must help each other to navigate the climb 
and overcome the hazards on the way.”33
Singapore’s subsequent manpower policies reveal the positive impact the 
Manpower 21 Plan has had. Talent became a key focus, with the Government 
pushing for training and reskilling programmes, including setting up the 
Workforce Development Agency (WDA) in 2003 to oversee continuing 
education and training. The WDA has since been reconstituted into two agencies 
– Workforce Singapore (WSG) and SkillsFuture Singapore (SSG). While WSG 
drives efforts to address industry manpower needs and helps Singaporeans 
assume quality jobs and careers, SSG drives the SkillsFuture programme and 
promotes a culture of lifelong learning. This industry-wide promotion of lifelong 
learning was made possible by the robust tripartite partnerships that sprang 
from the Manpower 21 Plan, such as NMC and NSC. Singapore also broadened 
its pursuit of skilled foreign talent through schemes like the EntrePass in 2003, 
which encouraged foreign entrepreneurs to set up shop here.
The plan has turned out to be a blueprint for success. According to business 
school INSEAD’s annual Global Talent Competitiveness Index in 2023, Chapter 5: Blueprint for a Future-Ready Singapore104 105
Charting Our PathSingapore’s workforce now ranks among the world’s most skilled, coming in 
second after only Switzerland.34
Reflecting on the Manpower 21 Plan’s position on transforming the work 
environment, Dr Lee Boon Yang said: “It was almost prescient, talking about 
things that only today are being rolled out into full scale practice…The phrase 
they used then was ‘virtual working’, and lo and behold, it talked about working 
from home. This was 1998, and we were encouraging employers to develop 
systems for employees to work from home. It is quite amazing.”35
For Dr Tan Chin Nam, the plan’s forward-looking approach remains key to 
Singapore’s success: “Why is Manpower 21 still relevant today? Because we 
need to continuously reengineer and reimagine the future to make Singapore 
relevant and competitive, because the world is changing.”36Palm-fringed beaches and public housing flats alongside medical laboratories 
are not the images typically associated with Singapore today. However, 
for many prospective workers and students in 1998, such visuals – featured 
prominently on Contact Singapore’s website – constituted their initial digital 
impression of the city-state.
Established in 1992 with the primary aim of maintaining connections with 
overseas Singaporeans, Contact Singapore was repurposed to enhance the 
country’s global profile. Beyond organising seminars and fairs overseas, 
the organisation created an online presence to project Singapore’s  
image internationally.
Though that website might appear dated by today’s standards, it represented 
Singapore’s ambition to harness the potential of the Internet and attract top global 
talent. As globalisation gained momentum in the 1990s, enhancing Singapore’s 
workforce competitiveness became a central focus for the Government, which 
had to prepare the nation for the new millennium with an emphasis on drawing 
international expertise.Chapter 6: Developing a Globally Competitive Workforce
Chapter 6
Developing a Globally 
Competitive Workforce106 107
Charting Our PathAugmenting the Workforce with Foreign Manpower
Singapore has long depended on foreign workers to augment its limited local 
workforce. The composition of Singapore’s foreign workforce is diverse, drawn 
from a wide range of countries across multiple skill levels and industries. They are 
broadly categorised into four key groups: high-skilled professionals who enter 
Singapore under the Employment Pass (EP); mid-level associate professionals 
and technicians who qualify through the S Pass; Work Permit holders who are 
generally blue collar workers; and migrant domestic workers who are employed 
by households to help out with domestic chores.
As of June 2024, there were 1.545 million foreign workers in Singapore, 
comprising 202,400 EP holders, 176,400 S Pass holders, 1.138 million Work 
Permit holders (migrant workers), and 28,200 holders of other work passes.1  
A large proportion of migrant workers, about 70 per cent, consist those who 
take up jobs in industries that local workers typically avoid. These are sectors 
such as construction, marine shipyard, and process. 
Having a foreign workforce allows Singapore to scale up during periods of rapid 
economic growth while providing a cushion during downturns. As Mr Lee Hsien 
Loong, then-Minister of State for Trade and Industry, explained in Parliament 
in 1987: “I should explain that we bring in migrant workers not to swell our 
labour force but to provide ourselves some flexibility to expand and contract. 
Our labour force, as I said, is expanding at about 1 per cent a year. Why? Because 
18 years ago, too few babies were born. Can we fix it? Yes, but it will take 18 
years. Migrant workers cannot solve that problem. Migrant workers can help to 
buffer rapid expansions and rapid contractions, so that all of the tightness is not 
taken up either in a wage explosion during a boom year, or in high Singapore 
worker unemployment during a recession year.”2Building a Talent Capital – Repositioning the EP
Policymakers were well aware that sustaining economic growth required more 
than just labour inputs – quality, more than quantity, would be key to unlocking 
even greater economic gains. On this front, Singapore faced two looming 
workforce challenges.
The first was managing the transition to a knowledge-based economy by getting 
the right workers. The decade was one in which information communications 
technology such as computers, mobile phones, and the Internet grew in scale 
and importance. In Singapore, industries such as precision engineering and 
semiconductor chips, pharmaceuticals, and chemicals were quickly rising as the 
next pillars of growth in manufacturing. These industries needed talent with 
specific skills that previous generations of workers did not have. Foreign talent 
also served to help build capabilities within the economy, through a process of 
knowledge transfer from global to local (see Chapter 5).
The second challenge that started to worry policymakers was the declining 
birth rate. As the economy developed, Singaporeans began delaying marriage 
and having fewer children. The resident total fertility rate fell from 1.82 in 
1980 to 1.75 in 1989.3 If left unchecked, lower birth rates, over the long run,  
would result in smaller cohorts of workers that could reduce Singapore’s 
economic dynamism.
The concerns were grave enough to warrant a shift in national immigration policy.  
Said then-Minister for Home Affairs Professor S. Jayakumar in 1989: 
“Singapore’s immigration policy aims to correct the population decline and 
to keep our nation young, vigorous, and talented. Singapore is competing with 
developed countries for skilled workers, technicians, and professionals.  
To grow, our economy requires more such people than we can produce ourselves. Chapter 6: Developing a Globally Competitive Workforce108 109
Charting Our PathShortage of talent means fewer foreign investors establishing businesses here, 
slower growth and fewer opportunities for Singaporeans.”4
Later that year, a new Immigration Affairs Committee was set up to oversee 
Singapore’s immigration policies. Chaired by then-Minister of State for Finance 
and Foreign Affairs Mr George Yeo, the committee’s task was to search and secure 
talent from all over the world to bolster Singapore’s future.5
In 1991, the Government released a long-term plan called the Strategic Economic 
Plan to map the pathway for the country to become a developed economy. The 
report, which outlined the need for Singapore’s economy to grow an external wing, 
emphasised the importance of people and talent. To grow the country’s talent 
pool, the Government would reach out to overseas talent through Singapore’s 
overseas network.6
The task of attracting foreign talent was initially led by a group of different 
agencies, including MHA, MTI, and EDB, which established its International 
Manpower Division in 1991.7 The division aimed to boost the quality of the 
workforce in various sectors from precision engineering to biomedical sciences, 
communications, and electronics by drawing on overseas talent.8
The issue was so critical to the progress of the nation that then-Prime Minister 
Mr Goh Chok Tong made it a key subject in his National Day Rally speech in 1997. 
Singapore needed talent from across the globe, which would continue to help grow 
its economy and generate good jobs for Singaporeans. While he acknowledged 
the growing disquiet over the numbers of foreigners here, whether transient 
workers or new immigrants, he noted that they brought multiple benefits to the 
nation.9 “The foreigners here do not take away opportunities from Singaporeans. 
On the contrary, the infusion of fresh ideas, skills, and drive will create more 
opportunities for Singaporeans.10In 1998, MOM assumed the role of formulating a comprehensive strategy 
for manpower planning in Singapore, including the optimal utilisation and 
attraction of foreign manpower resources to complement the local workforce.11 
The EP – previously administered by Singapore Immigration & Registration 
with an emphasis on assimilability – was repositioned as a temporary work 
pass to bring in foreign professionals in 1998. MOM also established the Foreign 
Manpower Employment Division in April 1998 to aid employers in meeting their 
foreign manpower needs and managing the foreign workforce in Singapore. 
By the end of 1998, the majority of matters related to foreign manpower and 
talent were consolidated under MOM, facilitating better coordination of foreign 
workforce policies.
Introducing the S Pass in 2004
The 2003 SARS crisis (see Chapter 7) was particularly harsh for Singapore and 
Singaporeans because of the impact it had on employment. The disruptions to 
general economic activity led to the resident unemployment rate surging to as 
high as 6.2 per cent, seasonally adjusted, in September 2003.12
For the Government, the best way to protect workers and create jobs 
was a healthy and humming economy. In the 2004 Budget Statement,  
Mr Lee Hsien Loong, as Minister for Finance, announced that the Government 
would embark on economic restructuring to build an economy that was 
“globalised, diversified, and entrepreneurial”.13 He outlined moves in four areas: 
growing manufacturing and services, encouraging entrepreneurship, enhancing 
competition, and labour market reforms.
A series of manpower policies were announced, including adjustments to the 
CPF, enhancing wage flexibility, advancing training and skills upgrading, and 
refining policies on foreign manpower to enable companies to scale and the 
economy to accelerate its expansion.Chapter 6: Developing a Globally Competitive Workforce110 111
Charting Our PathDr Ng Eng Hen, who was Minister for Manpower from 2004 to 2008, said that 
labour policy was crucial in this regard. As the economy recovered from SARS, 
jobs were being created but not being filled. “Every recession, we ask ourselves 
what the shape of the recession is. Is this a V shape, an L shape or a U shape? 
And every time you enter one, you know, you want to be careful and you tell 
people, ‘Please don’t expect a V-shaped recession.’ Now, 2003 was exactly like a 
V-shaped recession. It jumped and after that, the economy roars,” he said in an 
interview for this book.
The plan was to ease up on labour shortages, and allow the economy to 
recover quickly, so that by extension, Singaporeans would also enjoy the surge 
in jobs being created. As Mr Lee Hsien Loong said: “Many companies have 
told us that the rules are too rigid. For example, they often cannot seize new 
business opportunities which require more workers, because they cannot find 
Singaporean workers and yet cannot employ more migrant workers because 
they have reached the dependency ceiling. By allowing a controlled inflow of 
migrant workers, we indirectly create more jobs for Singaporeans. Migrant 
workers sustain many sectors of our economy. Without them, many activities 
would not be viable in Singapore – our factories would be short of workers, we 
would have no wafer fabrication plants, our financial services sector would not 
have enough skilled professionals, and virtually every sector would run short of 
IT personnel.”14
As Dr Ng Eng Hen noted during the 2004 Budget debate: “They (migrant 
workers) have helped our economy to grow, as they do jobs that Singaporeans 
do not want to do. And access to this transient pool of migrant workers allows 
companies to scale up and down quickly.”15 Describing local and migrant 
workers in Singapore as an “indivisible package”, he said giving companies 
access to a pool of transient workers was a pillar of economic growth.To bridge the gap for skilled workers, MOM introduced a new work pass 
called the S Pass in 2004. The new work pass was an ‘intermediate’ level work 
pass that allowed skilled associate professionals and technicians such as 
chefs, shipyard supervisors, and nurses to work in Singapore. The S Pass was 
a modified version of an earlier scheme, which had allowed skilled workers 
into Singapore on a case-by-case basis. But given the rapidly changing nature 
of business, having such an approach was onerous and slow-moving, said  
Dr Ng Eng Hen.
The S Pass was meant to function at a macro level, allowing for broad  
control of the inflow of such workers without the Government having to be 
involved at the micro-decision level. More importantly, it was developed to 
help companies struggling to find talent at the middle tiers of the workforce. 
“It is better for us to create a systemic solution like the S Pass, with some 
checks in place, and let companies bring in the type of talents they need,” said  
Dr Ng Eng Hen in 2004.16
The Government put in place four safeguards to control the flow of   
S Pass holders: a minimum salary requirement (at least S$1,800); relevant 
qualifications; a quota (fixed at 5 per cent of total workforce per company); and 
an initial monthly levy of S$50 per S Pass holder.17
The new policies allowed Singapore to capture growth in the mid-2000s. 
Employment growth hit record levels. Total employment increased by 700,000 
between 2004 and 2008, pushing employment levels of Singaporeans to new 
highs.18 Of the increase, over 300,000 went to local workers, while the rest 
went to foreigners. Locals also enjoyed healthy income growth, as median 
income grew close to 4 per cent per annum from 2003 to 2008.19 The annual 
average resident unemployment fell from 5.3 per cent in 2003 to 3.3 per cent  
in 2008.20Chapter 6: Developing a Globally Competitive Workforce112 113
Charting Our PathCalibrating our Dependence on Work Permit Holders
The Government first introduced Work Permits for unskilled foreign labour 
in the 1960s, with the majority coming from Malaysia. By the 1970s, as 
Singapore reached full employment, the tightening labour market prompted 
the Government to allow industries facing manpower shortages to recruit from 
countries such as Thailand, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and India.21
While the migrant workforce has provided flexibility to the economy, an 
excessive influx of migrant workers raises potential social, economic, and 
political risks.22 These risks include challenges to social cohesion and a potential 
decline in productivity. To manage the inflow, MOL introduced a levy system 
in 1982,23 aimed at raising the cost of foreign labour and encouraging local 
enterprises to turn to automation to address manpower shortages. The Ministry 
also announced plans to phase out migrant workers and establish a fully 
Singaporean workforce by 1992.24
But the 1985 recession and subsequent economic recovery altered the trajectory 
of this policy approach. Among other things, the Government recognised that 
it would not be possible to do without any foreigners in Singapore’s workforce, 
given the demand for manpower as well as the need for skills that the local 
workforce did not have.
Likewise, while it was necessary to reduce over-dependence on migrant 
workers, the 1985 Economic Committee, which was formed to study Singapore’s 
recession, acknowledged that allowing firms access to a revolving pool of 
migrant workers was necessary. “However, to be realistic, our industries will 
require foreign workers to overcome temporary shortages, and to work in jobs 
where it has proven difficult to employ Singaporeans. We should therefore 
continue to allow a revolving pool of foreign workers on short-term work 
permits,” noted the Committee.25The economic recovery after the 1985 recession underscored the Committee’s 
key points on foreign labour. As demand picked up, growth accelerated and 
the labour market tightened. The unemployment rate fell sharply from 6.5 per 
cent in June 1986 to 4.7 per cent in June 1987,26 and labour shortages started 
to appear across multiple industries, especially in manufacturing. To ease 
the labour crunch, the Government allowed five sectors – manufacturing, 
construction, shipbuilding and ship repair, hotel, and domestic services – 
to bring in migrant workers.27 Together with the levy system in place, firms 
were able to quickly meet the need for more manpower by tapping on pools of  
migrant workers.
The presence of migrant workers in the economy, alongside the favourable 
external environment, helped speed up growth and launch Singapore firmly 
into the 1990s, said Dr Lee Boon Yang, who was Minister for Labour and then 
Minister for Manpower between 1993 and 2003. “After that (the 1985 recession), 
the next decade for Singapore, from 1986 to 1996 or so, was a fantastic decade. 
We rode the globalisation trend – there was a lot of foreign investment and lots 
of jobs were created,” said Dr Lee Boon Yang, in an interview for this book.28
“What we were doing cannot be done just with the domestic workforce.  
It was critical for us to have access to a foreign workforce to complement our 
domestic workforce. This would then allow us to achieve a lot more than what 
we are able to do just by ourselves,” he added.Chapter 6: Developing a Globally Competitive Workforce114 115
Charting Our PathService‘HEART’
In 2023, the number of customer interactions MOM handled was over 
50 million across its physical touchpoints, website, contact centre and 
e-services. These services cater to a diverse profile of customers including 
multinationals and small to medium-sized enterprises, employment 
agencies and intermediaries, households that employ migrant domestic 
workers, and local and foreign employees.
With so many interactions with people and organisations, MOM 
takes customer service seriously. This spotlight will delve into MOM’s 
evolving approach in serving its customers through building a robust 
service culture and improving service capabilities. 
 Centralising Service Delivery
As Singapore’s workforce regulator, MOM has long been assisting with 
employment disputes and work injury claims, administering work Spotlight chapters highlight key topics that span multiple eras, and how 
MOM took unique approaches to address them.
This spotlight looks at key milestones in the Ministry’s journey to better 
serve its customers and digitalise its services.passes, and other regulatory frameworks.
The push towards building a stronger service culture in MOM was driven 
by a concerted move across the public service toward a similar goal, 
prompted by the Public Service for the 21st Century (PS21) movement 
which was first launched in 1995. PS21 called for a paradigm shift  
among public officers, from anticipating novel demands to finding 
innovative solutions to new challenges, as well as a greater focus on 
customer service.1
In 2003, MOM set up a dedicated Customer Responsiveness Department 
(CRD) to consolidate service delivery into one department. As founding 
CRD director Mrs Penny Han recalled in an interview for this book: 
“MOM’s Permanent Secretary at that time saw that we needed a 
department to centralise all customer strategies, policies and processes, 
and to set common standards across all departments.”2
With the setting up of CRD, MOM began to rethink its service delivery. 
The first step was to carry out benchmarking. “At the time, we 
didn’t comprehensively measure and track customer service levels 
so we didn’t know where we stood,” said Mrs Penny Han.3 But the 
objective was not just to compare against peers in the public sector.  
“I always believed that the best-in-class is out there. So we also looked 
internationally and at private sector firms,” she noted.4
In the early years, this involved attending an international customer 
service conference in Orlando in the United States to learn best 
practices. MOM also studied local private companies, including hotels 
such as the Four Seasons Hotel, renowned for their customer service Spotlight 3: Service From the ‘HEART’
From
the116 117
Charting Our Paththen, on how they served customers. Said Mrs Penny Han: “I observed 
how they set and upheld service standards, how they consistently 
tracked and published monthly service performance reports for all 
major departments. This brought departments up to speed as they 
could see for themselves how they were doing compared to previously, 
and with their peers and, in a way, made them compete because the 
reports were out there.”5
One of the first tasks was to define and track service delivery metrics. In 
2004, MOM’s first customer perception survey began to set a baseline 
for service. Monthly State of Customer Service reports were circulated 
internally and discussed at management meetings to raise awareness 
of how MOM had performed for its customers. These reports, along 
with the service achievements of each department, were reported at 
senior management meetings. MOM also adopted mystery shopping 
to ensure that officers were consistently upholding service standards. 
MOM officers would go undercover to engage with various service 
touchpoints across all MOM departments for a firsthand experience of 
how customers were being served.
Shoring Up the Frontline
With a fresh emphasis on service delivery, MOM started to transform 
its frontline services, which included its website, telephone and email 
support, and in-person service counters.
The first big change was outsourcing the MOM Contact Centre 
(MOMCC), which oversaw a call centre and email services. At that 
time, MOMCC was a small group of around 30 in-house officers and it could not cope with the large volume of calls MOM was receiving, 
said Mrs Penny Han. “We were never able to meet the demand and 
it was performing below expectations. Also, ensuring there was 
sufficient call agent capacity and managing a call centre were better 
handled by professionals in the industry. So management decided to 
outsource it.”6
MOMCC was outsourced in October 2005, and the decision saw 
results. By the end of 2006, customer satisfaction levels for call and 
email services had risen to 83 per cent and 79 per cent respectively, 
up from 61 per cent and 75 per cent in 2004. More than 80 per cent of 
calls were picked up within a minute, while over 90 per cent of general 
inquiry emails were replied to by the next working day.7
Next, MOM turned its attention to its in-person service counters. In 
particular, MOM was looking to set up an Employment Pass Services 
Centre (EPSC), where foreign workers would go to complete the 
process of issuing their Employment Pass upon arrival in Singapore. In 
designing the service experience at the EPSC, MOM turned to design 
thinking, which involves designing products or services from the 
customer’s point of view to best meet their needs. Using prototyping 
techniques, MOM also found innovative solutions to concerns such 
as the build-up of multiple queues. Manned reception or check-
in counters at the time were considered a must-have feature in any 
customer service centre. But such a counter meant allowing another 
queue to form, something MOM wanted to avoid. Instead, MOM opted 
for self-service kiosks to minimise queues. “The prototyping worked. 
It helped us weed out kinks,” Mrs Penny Han said.8Spotlight 3: Service From the ‘HEART’118 119
Charting Our PathOn July 1, 2009, the EPSC opened on Upper Circular Road. “The 
establishment of the EPSC represents a combination of both hardware 
and software efforts to significantly raise the level of customer service, 
in support of MOM’s long-term strategy to build a globally competitive 
workforce for Singapore,” said then-Minister for Manpower  
Mr Gan Kim Yong during the official opening of the EPSC.9
Applying similar service design approaches used for the EPSC, MOM 
Services Centre (MOMSC) was opened at Bendemeer Road in 2012 
as a one-stop centre for other MOM services. Speaking at the ground  
breaking ceremony for MOMSC in 2010, Mr Gan Kim Yong said: 
“Presently, our various service centres are situated at different 
locations. An employer who would like to submit a manual Work 
Permit application would need to go to our Work Pass Services 
Centre at Tanjong Pagar. But if he would like to inquire about 
the employment rights of his workers, he would need to meet 
MOM officers at our Havelock office. All these will change by mid-
2012. The MOM Bendemeer Office will consolidate our offices 
and services into a centre that serves the wide-ranging needs of  
our customers.”10
MOM also recognised that there was an increasing demand for online 
services and that its online presence had to evolve to effectively respond 
to customer needs. In 2012, MOM embarked on a transformation of its 
digital services, notably to revamp the MOM website. Following an in-
depth research study to identify key customer needs, MOM departments 
came together to re-design, re-write and re-organise the website’s 
contents. The goal was to co-create a consistent and simplified online 
user experience that would directly meet customer needs through easy-to-understand language and a user-centric interface.
The “One-MOM” approach to designing and maintaining the website 
involved transformational shifts – firstly, in the way content was 
written and presented so as to enable customers to navigate through 
various rules and processes; and secondly, in having a system to 
continuously monitor and improve the website to meet their needs.
As recognition of these efforts, the MOM Website won the 
“Government Standard of Excellence” Award in 2016 conferred by the 
Web Marketing Association, which champions excellence in website 
design internationally.11 In the same year, the MOM Website Redesign 
Team received the PS21 STAR Service Team Award which recognises 
public service officers who delivered excellent service and in doing 
so, improved the lives of Singaporeans.12 MOM also won the Silver 
award for “Best Digital Experience” at the 2018 Customer Experience 
Excellence Awards.13
Digitalising Services
As its customers quickly adapted to the use of personal computers 
in the 1990s, MOM placed a key focus on digitalising its services. For 
example, LabourNet, which launched in 1997, was the Ministry’s first 
set of digital services for businesses to apply for work passes. These 
digital services were substantially improved with the release of Work 
Permit Online (WPOL) in 2004. WPOL proved to be a success during 
its time, providing customers with faster processing times amid record 
transaction volumes.14 This complemented the in-person services 
provided by MOM, greatly easing the load on frontline staff.Spotlight 3: Service From the ‘HEART’120 121
Charting Our PathFor improving transparency, accountability and responsiveness in 
the public service through WPOL, MOM received the United Nations 
Public Service Award in 2006.15
MOM continually sought to improve this digital product to stay 
responsive to rapid changes in the labour market, and meet the evolving 
needs of customers, which included the demand for more intuitive 
user interfaces, 24/7 availability of services, and compatibility with 
modern devices. This human-centric approach to business process and 
IT system redevelopment was captured in a major new project in 2013 
called the Work Pass Integrated System (WINS). The WINS project 
was MOM’s first experiment with the Agile software development 
approach, which was novel for the Singapore Government at the time, 
particularly with regards to large-scale IT systems.
The first milestone for WINS was its digital services for employers 
of migrant domestic workers in 2015. It simplified the process 
for employers seeking to renew the work passes of their migrant 
domestic workers, saving customers over S$5 million a year in time 
and overheads.16 The system’s improvements reduced the time taken 
to complete the renewal process from 15 minutes to three minutes 
on average, increased customer experience ratings from 3 to 5.2 on 
a 6-point scale, and reduced some categories of calls to MOMCC by 
50 per cent.17 WINS also responded 50 per cent faster to policy and 
process changes than before. This was followed by the launch of WINS 
for Employment Pass, S Pass and related transactions in 2023, which 
was recognised for its application of sound service design methods 
with the global Service Design Award.18MOM has also employed technological innovations to improve 
its service delivery in the area of dispute management. In August 
2023, MOM and the Tripartite Alliance for Dispute Management, a 
tripartite body providing advisory and mediation services, launched 
the Employment Practices and Progressive Workplaces Shared 
Platform (EmPOWER). EmPOWER is an AI-powered online service 
platform that integrates all stages of the claims resolution process, 
from advisory to settlement, on a single digital platform, allowing 
users to manage their claims anytime and anywhere. It also enabled 
self-resolution of simpler cases, reducing the need for mediation by  
50 per cent.
During e-negotiation, AI-driven sentiment analysis prompts users 
to rephrase their responses if tensions rise, facilitating constructive 
conversations throughout the negotiation process. For more complex 
cases requiring mediation, the e-Mediation feature allows for 
asynchronous or teleconference meetings, saving time by eliminating 
the need for physical attendance. These cutting-edge features and 
user-centric design resulted in a high customer satisfaction rate of  
94 per cent.
MOM’s digitalisation efforts have extended to other areas.  
For example, SnapSAFE was launched in 2017 as a digital platform to 
enable quick reporting and resolution of unsafe practices or hazards 
using photos, descriptions and GPS locations. The SGWorkPass app 
was also launched in 2017 to provide workers and employers with 
verified work pass information in a secure and convenient format.  
To support migrant workers, the FWMOMCare app was also released Spotlight 3: Service From the ‘HEART’122 123
Charting Our Pathin 2020, allowing migrant workers to report unsafe workplace 
practices, book medical appointments and recreational facilities, and 
access the latest advisories.
A Continuous Effort
Today, the majority of customer transactions with MOM can be 
completed digitally. This is complemented by in-person services at 
MOMSC and EPSC. But MOM is not stopping in its pursuit of ensuring 
that it meets its customers’ evolving needs. It is looking ahead to new 
tools and service design techniques to better serve its customers. For 
example, MOM implemented an AI transcription and summarisation 
tool in 2024 to address customer queries more efficiently and 
completely. MOM also rolled out the MOM chatbot on its website and 
is trialling an AI-powered Digital Frontline Assistant at MOM Services 
Centre to provide faster responses to customer queries.
For all the new technologies that MOM adopts, however, its efforts 
must be grounded in a robust service culture. Such a culture has been 
inculcated into MOM over the years, codified in its Excellence in 
Service (ExiS) Blueprint in 2015. The blueprint built on MOM’s early 
achievements in customer-centricity in Government services and 
articulated the vision of a trusted and customer-centric MOM amid 
changing service challenges. “ExiS is a movement that involves every 
MOMer because service excellence is not a department, it’s everybody’s 
job,” noted Mr Kok Ping Soon, chairman of the ExiS Committee and 
then-Deputy Secretary (Development) at MOM, when the blueprint 
was launched.19The ExiS Blueprint set out three service strategies that required 
everyone working in MOM to put themselves in the shoes of their 
customers and stakeholders and address their pain points:
i) Help customers help themselves, which referred to designing  
 policies, processes, services and communications to enable  
 self-help by default. 
ii) Deliver the right experience, which recognised that while MOM  
 worked towards self-help by default, it needed to consider the  
 needs of all its customers, with many still requiring dedicated  
 frontline help. 
iii) Serve with HEART, which defined a set of principles under the  
 acronym called HEART (H ear Them Out, Make It E asy, Anticipate  
 Their Needs, Respect Every Individual, Be Timely) to guide 
 MOMers on how they should think and work with customers.20
MOM’s service vision and strategies emphasised strengthening trust 
with its customers and stakeholders. “Trust is crucial. If our customers 
understand our policies and see that we consistently deliver what we 
say we will, implementation will be more effective as customers have 
their trust in MOM,” said Mrs Penny Han. “This trust is something 
MOM has and must continue to build over the years.”21Spotlight 3: Service From the ‘HEART’124Era 4
Through 
the Crises127At the turn of the millennium, Singapore was buffeted by a series of external 
shocks, from the 1997-1998 Asian Financial Crisis to the 2001 dot-com 
recession, and then a virus outbreak hitting the region in 2003.
But these downturns – and the subsequent 2008 Global Financial Crisis – were 
opportunities for the country to correct and improve its internal structures. 
From enhancing job-matching, to improving wage flexibility, and restructuring 
the economy, Singapore emerged stronger and more resilient.
This chapter focuses on MOM’s responses to the Asian Financial Crisis and 
outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in Part 1, and examines 
how manpower policy which balanced between economic and social objectives 
helped Singapore rebound from the 2008 Global Financial Crisis in Part 2.
PART 1 – Asian Financial Crisis and SARS Crisis
The Asian Financial Crisis, which erupted in 1997 following the collapse of the 
Thai baht under relentless pressure from currency speculators, soon revealed Chapter 7: Down But Not Out
Chapter 7
Down But Not Out128 129
Charting Our Pathitself as a profound regional upheaval rather than a mere economic downturn. 
The contagion rapidly spread across Asia, precipitating severe economic turmoil 
and sparking social and political unrest. Countries such as Indonesia, Malaysia, 
and South Korea faced acute strains as their currencies plummeted.1
Singapore managed to avoid the worst effects of the crisis, but its  
trade-dependent economy was nonetheless significantly affected. By  
mid-1998, the Republic had suffered substantial retrenchments and job losses. 
The severity of the downturn was underscored by the fact that layoffs in the 
first half of 1998 (14,440) surpassed the total for all of 1997 (9,784).2 There 
were 32,800 retrenchments that year,3 with the manufacturing sector, heavily 
reliant on external demand, bearing the brunt of the crisis.4 The resident 
unemployment rate had risen to 4.5 per cent in September 1998.5 The nation 
slipped into a recession by the second half of 1998 and experienced its first 
employment contraction (-23,400) that year since the mid-1980s recession.6
To counter rising unemployment, MOM and its tripartite partners established 
a Tripartite Panel on Retrenched Workers, implementing two pivotal initiatives 
from July 1998. The first initiative, a retrenchment advisory programme, 
encouraged employers to explore alternatives to retrenchments, including 
reduced workweeks, temporary layoffs, adjustments to variable wage 
components, and reskilling opportunities through NTUC’s Skills Redevelopment 
Programme (SRP). The second initiative, an employment assistance programme, 
aimed to align available job openings with retrenched workers, directing them 
towards higher-skilled positions through the SRP.7
Despite these efforts, things were looking worse for Singapore by mid-1998. 
Productivity was down 6.3 per cent in the second quarter,8 and retrenchments 
continued rapidly. Besides the slowdown caused by the crisis, there was also 
a downturn in global electronics, and oil-related sectors such as refining were hit by a drop in oil prices amid weaker demand. In the first nine months of that 
year, more than 20,000 workers were retrenched, about twice as many as the 
total number of layoffs for the whole of 1997.9
Watching these developments unfold, the NWC’s then-Chairman Professor 
Lim Chong Yah and then-Minister for Manpower Dr Lee Boon Yang both agreed 
that the council should reconvene. The NWC’s May guidelines for 1998/1999, 
which had called for wage restraint, were no longer adequate. Dr Lee Boon Yang 
noted that MTI’s Committee on Singapore’s Competitiveness was proposing a 
10-percentage-point cut to employers’ CPF contributions as part of a S$10 billion 
cost reduction package.10 Would the NWC, he wondered, be able to propose a 
revised set of recommendations to help companies manage wage costs?
Weeks of deliberation ensued. In its revised guidelines in November, the NWC 
backed the proposed cut to CPF, which would bring the employers’ contribution 
rate down to 10 per cent. The council also called for a wage cut of between 5 
and 8 per cent, in line with the Committee on Singapore’s Competitiveness’ 
call to cut overall wage costs by 15 per cent compared to the previous year. 
Companies that did exceptionally well or badly could deviate from the guideline,  
the NWC added.
Even more crucial was the need to accelerate the pace of wage reform, particularly 
in terms of making wages more flexible. The NWC recommended that wage cuts 
be made from variable components in the paycheck, and urged companies to 
implement a flexible wage system if they had not already done so. Employees in 
higher income groups should take deeper cuts. The Government, being a major 
employer, should take the lead to adopt the revised recommendations.11
It took many “painful discussions” before the NWC could agree that it was right 
to cut CPF this time round, recalled Dr Lee Boon Yang in an interview for this Chapter 7: Down But Not Out130 131
Charting Our Pathbook, with a nod to concerns from workers and union leaders. “But eventually, 
through the good work of Professor Lim Chong Yah, and key tripartite 
representatives like Mr Stephen Lee and Mr John De Payva, they managed 
to reach a consensus to reduce the employers’ CPF contribution rate by 10 
percentage points. That represented quite a significant and helpful wage cost 
reduction for the employers,” said Dr Lee Boon Yang. He added that the “NWC 
also took pains to signal to the workers that this reduction was not permanent. 
They said that if the economy recovered, the Government should restore the 
CPF contribution rate to what it was”.12
This was a similar playbook to how Singapore’s Government had dealt with 
the 1985 recession, when the employers’ contribution rate was reduced by  
15 percentage points (down from 25 per cent to 10 per cent), and partially 
restored to 20 per cent as economic conditions improved. But the earlier cut 
was more palatable, because it came out of a total CPF contribution rate that 
was then at an all-time high of 50 per cent. By the time the Asian Financial Crisis 
came around, total contribution rates had already been pared down to 40 per 
cent, making a further cut more difficult for workers.13
Dr Lee Boon Yang said that while the severity of the downturn called for stronger 
measures, such as the slashing of CPF rates, MOM decided that it was best for 
such measures to be passed after the consensus of tripartite partners. “The 
Committee had recommended that there should be some adjustment to help 
employers over this period, by way of adjusting the employers’ CPF contribution 
rate,” he said. “You could make a unilateral decision to cut employers’ CPF 
contribution rate, and explain that it was because of the Asian Financial Crisis. 
But we in MOM felt that it was better to do it with some more consultation.” In 
November, the Government accepted the recommendations of the Committee 
on Singapore’s Competitiveness. As expected, the CPF cuts, which would come 
into force in January 1999, drew complaints from workers, many of whom relied on their CPF to service their mortgages.14 Union leaders played an important role 
in explaining to their members why the short-term pain would yield benefits in 
the long run. To soften the impact of the cuts, the Government rolled out a series 
of short-term measures, which included allowing struggling homeowners to tap 
on their CPF Special Account – in addition to the Ordinary Account – to service 
their mortgages. And if this was insufficient, the Government would provide 
bridging loans.15 The Government also took the lead in implementing the NWC’s 
revised wage recommendations.
Singapore’s response to the crisis differed from its neighbours. “Neither the 
Hong Kong wage system nor the exchange rate regime was flexible enough to 
react positively to the East Asian exchange rate shock,” observed Professor Lim 
Chong Yah. “The Taiwan wage system too could not react with speed.”16
However, cost-cutting in Singapore, while effective, could only be part of 
the solution. Companies also had to take a hard look at their fundamentals 
and upgrade their employees’ skills so as to stay competitive. “We have to 
redouble our efforts to raise productivity,” urged then-NTUC Secretary-General  
Mr Lim Boon Heng in December 1998. “We also have to restructure operations 
so that we use manpower more efficiently…Skills retraining (will) be a key factor 
in our recovery process. And this will stand us in good stead when the recovery 
actually comes.”17
Tackling Structural Unemployment
Mr Lim Boon Heng was acutely aware of one big challenge for Singapore that 
had been exacerbated by the Asian Financial Crisis: structural unemployment. 
This was a longer-lasting form of unemployment caused by fundamental shifts 
in the economy.Chapter 7: Down But Not Out132 133
Charting Our PathSingapore’s economy had been transitioning from a labour-intensive economy 
to a knowledge-based one. By the mid-1990s, new roles in areas such as wafer 
and disk drive fabrication had emerged. The 21st century economy called for 
higher-value skills that many of the older, lower-skilled locals did not have.18
The crisis of 1998 accelerated the pace of change, with some industries moving 
out of Singapore altogether, resulting in large pools of workers with skills that 
no longer matched the needs of other new industries. “With a much faster pace 
of retrenchment and a much slower pace of economic growth, we will end up 
with structural unemployment this year,” Mr Lim Boon Heng’s deputy at NTUC, 
Mr Lim Swee Say, told The Straits Times in July 1998.19
It was a problem that the labour movement had identified even prior to the 
recession. NTUC had co-launched a Skills Redevelopment Programme (SRP) 
in December 1996, initially targeting about 1,500 employees working in 
manufacturing. These workers, who were mostly employed by multinationals, 
were trained in “growth” areas such as wafer fabrication so they could be 
redeployed later. They received industry- and nationally-recognised skills 
certification. The SRP – launched by NTUC, the Productivity and Standards 
Board, EDB, and Institute of Technical Education (ITE) – was backed by the 
Government and the Skills Development Fund.20 The cost of training was heavily 
subsidised. And as the scheme expanded, it helped the company foot up to 70 
per cent of a worker’s absentee payroll while they were being trained.21
MOM expanded the programme with a series of moves in 1998 to deal with 
the fallout from the slowdown. SRP benefitted from a S$20 million boost in 
June 1998 – as part of a S$2 billion off-Budget package to cut business costs 
and stimulate the economy.22 The money would expand training facilities 
and capacity, including funding a new Skills Development Centre to meet 
the demand for training places. By July, the SRP targeted 15 growth sectors, including chemical and wafer fabrication.23 Companies that invested in staff 
training were recognised with a new quality standard called People Developer.24
The programme eventually expanded to other sectors such as hospitality, 
furthering the goals laid out in a four-part manpower action plan MOM had 
launched in September.25 It was not the only training scheme. Union members 
who wanted to upgrade their skills in their personal capacity – rather than 
through their employers – could also tap a newly-established NTUC Education 
and Training Fund (N-ETF). The fund was launched in October, brought forward 
by six months amid the economic slowdown.26
In November 1998, a S$15.5 million Skills Development Centre began operations 
in Bukit Merah on the former premises of the ITE. The centre would run courses 
on topics such as electronics, mechatronics, and mechanical servicing for some 
3,500 trainees a year during the day, and another 1,200 in evenings and on 
weekends. It was Singapore’s first training centre for adult workers that was 
run and funded by the Government.27
These developments laid the groundwork for a more robust skills and jobs-
matching infrastructure, paving the way for consolidated entities such as 
the Singapore Workforce Development Agency (see Chapter 8). Some of the 
aforementioned training initiatives, such as the SRP and N-ETF, would be 
enhanced by the Government during the 2001 dot-com recession.28
While training was important, the best protection for jobs was ultimately a 
growing economy, stressed Dr Ng Eng Hen, Minister for Manpower from 2004 
to 2008. “As much as we believe in skills training, it cannot be the tail that wags 
the dog,” he said in an interview for this book. “If your economy is not growing, 
no matter how well trained you are, you will find it very difficult to find a job.”Chapter 7: Down But Not Out134 135
Charting Our PathSimilarly, if the economy was not growing, a policy to create jobs for the sake of 
it – “trying to find out the maximum number of people required to trim a hedge” 
– would be unsustainable and but a disguised dole, Dr Ng Eng Hen added.29
Monthly Variable Component
The intense cost-cutting and upskilling that defined the Asian Financial Crisis 
in Singapore was soon followed by a “remarkable economic turnaround” when 
external demand went up again. The economy rebounded quickly in 1999, 
registering 5.7 per cent GDP growth.30
“One critical factor which enabled Singapore to seize the opportunities presented 
by the rising external demand was our improvement in cost competitiveness,” 
said then-Minister for Finance Dr Richard Hu in his February 2000 Budget speech. 
“In particular, the 10-percentage-point cut in employers’ CPF contribution rate 
and the wage restraint last year made a significant difference,” he noted.31
The lesson from the 1998 downturn was that more work was needed to make 
the wage system more malleable. For instance, companies had annual variable 
components in the form of year-end bonuses, but these could only be cut at the 
end of the year. CPF cuts were also – as former SNEF President Mr Stephen Lee 
put it – a “blunt instrument”, affecting companies that were doing well and 
had no need to cut costs at all.32 The upswell of discontent from workers at the 
latest cuts did not help, either. “You could see that unions and workers were not 
happy,” Mr Ong Yen Her, MOM’s former Divisional Director, Labour Relations 
and Workplaces Division, recalled. “We realised that, up to a point, we ‘cannot 
cut CPF anymore’.”33
One solution introduced in the NWC’s 1999/2000 recommendations was a 
Monthly Variable Component (MVC) that employers could adjust quickly in 
response to shifts in the economic landscape.34 “If you had to wait until the end of the year to adjust wages, maybe it would be a bit too late for some employers,” 
Mr Lim Boon Heng said in an interview for this book. “Why not build into the 
wage structure a monthly variable component? Then if the company needs to 
adjust wages, they can effect the change immediately.”35
The topic of the MVC resurfaced in earnest during the 2003 SARS outbreak, 
when there was a “renewed urgency” to revamp wage structures to help 
companies stay viable and save jobs. The Economic Review Committee and the 
NWC called on companies to transfer at least 2 per cent from workers’ basic 
wages into the MVC.36 The NWC also proposed that the Government set up a 
tripartite taskforce to drive wage restructuring efforts, which would “not only 
help our workforce to survive this economic downturn, but more importantly to 
minimise the impact on workers of future business cycles”.37
By January 2004, the Tripartite Taskforce on Wage Restructuring, headed 
by MOM’s then-Permanent Secretary Ms Yong Ying-I, had unveiled its 
recommendations: incorporate the MVC into wages, link variable bonus to key 
performance indicators, and narrow the maximum-minimum salary ratio for 
most employees to an average of 1.5 or lower.38
“In the more uncertain and dynamic environment after the Asian Crisis, flexible 
wages have become a more urgent priority than ever,” said then-Deputy Prime 
Minister Mr Lee Hsien Loong at a conference on wage restructuring, pointing 
to rapid advancements in technology, industries moving to China and India, 
and how globalisation had led to more competition. “For all these reasons, our 
companies must be lean, efficient, and dynamic, with every bit of fat trimmed 
off and every worker doing his best...A wage system which is fixed and rigid,  
and based more on seniority in the job than on what the job is worth, is no 
longer realistic.”39Chapter 7: Down But Not Out136 137
Charting Our PathThe MVC, in particular, would make it easier for companies to trim wages 
during bad times. “Nobody knew how to cut wages flexibly. Companies found 
it much easier to sack some workers to cut costs, rather than cut wages for all 
employees,” recalled Ms Yong Ying-I in an interview for this book. “We wanted 
to preserve jobs for workers…and it was good for companies too, because in 
an economic down-cycle, companies can sack workers…but when the upturn 
comes later on, companies find that they can’t hire so easily and the workers 
hired may not have the skills that companies need.”40
Over the next few months in 2004, the taskforce’s reStructuring Wages AcTion 
(SWAT) team met with hundreds of companies, calling on them to take up its 
recommendations. But employers were slow to do so. According to MOM’s 
survey of more than 3,300 companies between December 2003 and March 
2004, nearly six in 10 firms said they did not plan to implement the MVC, 
because they felt it was a hassle, or that their current wage system was flexible 
enough. It did not help that some workers also viewed the MVC as a wage cut.41 
“We introduced (the idea of the MVC), but it was not very successful because it 
is complicated to administer,” said SNEF’s Mr Stephen Lee in an interview for 
this book. “If we can get a much larger percentage of companies adopting this, 
maybe it could be a solution.”42
About 80 per cent of companies had some form of wage flexibility in 2023. But 
when it comes to the MVC specifically, there is room for improvement. In 2023, 
about 11 per cent of businesses had adopted the MVC. The majority of firms 
(69.1 per cent) in 2023 had only the annual variable component (AVC), 10.3 per 
cent had the AVC and MVC, and barely any (1.1 per cent) had just the MVC, with 
many citing a lack of awareness as a reason for the low MVC uptake.43 This might 
represent a missed opportunity, given the usefulness of the MVC in creating a 
more flexible wage system for both employers and employees.Reflecting on the push for companies to implement the MVC, Mr Lim Boon Heng  
added: “Today, while companies may not be following all the original 
recommendations closely, we do have a flexible wage system. The more senior 
one is in a company, the higher the flexible component. With lower bonuses and a 
higher fixed monthly wage at the lower end, the incomes of lower-wage workers 
are more stable.”44
The lessons learned from the Asian Financial Crisis and SARS outbreak would 
prove invaluable as Singapore faced its next major economic challenge. The 
Government’s emphasis on wage flexibility, skills upgrading, and tripartite 
cooperation had laid a foundation that would be tested and further strengthened 
in the face of a global economic meltdown.
PART 2 – Global Financial Crisis
In September 2008, barely five years after the SARS crisis, Singapore found itself 
confronting another severe economic threat. The collapse of Lehman Brothers – 
one of the most storied investment banks in the United States – triggered a wave 
of banking failures across the world. The resulting credit crunch precipitated a 
global financial crisis and by the third quarter of 2008, Singapore became the 
first East Asian economy to sink into a recession.45
The numbers were grim, and the Government feared the worst. Year-on-
year GDP growth had fallen to 5.7 per cent for the first half of 2008 – after a 
robust 9.0 per cent growth in 2007 – before contracting by 7.7 per cent in 
the first quarter of 2009.46 The prognosis was dire, with then-Prime Minister  
Mr Lee Hsien Loong cautioning in his May Day Rally speech in 2009 that there 
might be “no V-shaped recovery”.47 But Singapore fared much better than 
expected. The harsh, prolonged L-shaped recession never came to pass, and 
the economy recovered quickly. A big part of the reason could be attributed to Chapter 7: Down But Not Out138 139
Charting Our Pathhow the Government, unions, and employers agreed that keeping jobs had to be  
a priority.
‘Cut Costs to Save Jobs’
The most powerful rallying cry to emerge from the crisis was then-labour chief 
Mr Lim Swee Say’s call on employers to “cut costs to save jobs, not cut jobs to 
save costs”. Over the next few months, tripartite partners echoed this slogan, 
backing measures to stem the tide of layoffs. Together, Singapore would “upturn 
the downturn”.48
One such effort was the launch of the Tripartite Guidelines on Managing Excess 
Manpower in November 2008.49
Mr Ong Yen Her, who led the tripartite workgroup, recalled that they quickly 
put together the Tripartite Guidelines on Managing Excess Manpower to help 
companies with measures to ride out the downturn. The tripartite partners 
were urged to cut costs to save jobs, instead of cutting jobs to save costs. At the 
same time, employers were advised to embark on cost-cutting measures such as 
implementing a shorter work week, temporary lay-offs, wage freezes, trimming 
variable components, and sending their surplus workers for skills upgrading 
heavily funded by the Government.
“We knew that we had to quickly work out something acceptable to the unions 
and employers, otherwise there would be no meeting of minds on how to 
deal with the crisis,” Mr Ong Yen Her said. “We finally came up with a set of 
guidelines on how companies, together with their unions and workers, could 
manage excessive manpower and minimise job losses… The tripartite guidelines 
that had been hammered out within half a day…were an example of how strong tripartism had enabled the unions, employers and Government to agree on 
acceptable solutions so quickly. It illustrated the true spirit of tripartism.”50
There were signs that the MVC – adopted by more employers after SARS – had 
made it easier for companies to reduce costs in the Global Financial Crisis and 
preserve jobs. In December 2008, MOM found that firms with the MVC were 
more confident of getting their employees to accept a wage cut – 24 per cent 
of such firms anticipated it would be hard to do so, compared to 29 per cent of 
firms without the MVC.51
Jobs Credit Scheme
When it was clear that this was a downturn unlike any the country had faced 
so far, the Government quickly acted to provide support to companies and 
workers. In January 2009, a S$4.5 billion Jobs Credit Scheme, which would 
defray the cost of workers’ salaries, was unveiled in a raft of Budget measures to 
help workers and employers tide over the crisis. Under this temporary scheme, 
employers would receive a 12 per cent cash grant on the first S$2,500 of monthly 
wages for each employee.52
For Mr Lim Swee Say, who was NTUC Secretary-General at the time, there was 
no question that Jobs Credit was essential to not just saving jobs but saving 
companies as well. “In 2008, we had already gone through a transition towards 
a knowledge-based economy for 10 to 15 years,” he said. “By the time it came 
to 2008, the structure was very different from before. The workforce was a lot 
more skilled, more innovative, and more specialised. If we were to go for massive 
retrenchment, to cut jobs to save costs, companies would survive, but when the 
market comes back, where are you going to find other people? These are not just 
hands and legs that you can replace. These are knowledge workers.”53Chapter 7: Down But Not Out140 141
Charting Our PathThis crisis called for a different set of measures than before, said MOM’s 
former Permanent Secretary Mr Loh Khum Yean in an interview for this book. 
“The Government took bold, considered steps to provide stability, assurance 
and hope, but being careful not to overstep and create a crutch mentality,” 
he remarked. “There were questions about fiscal sustainability of the Jobs 
Credit Scheme because nobody knew how long it would need to be continued  
– or even intensified.”54
While there was no CPF cut this time round, the Jobs Credit Scheme was 
equivalent to a 9-percentage-point CPF contribution rate cut for employers. 
That was because Jobs Credit was based on wages up to the first S$2,500, 
whereas CPF contributions were based on the first S$4,500.55
The Jobs Credit Scheme had a positive impact. According to an MOM poll from 
May to July 2009, three-quarters (73 per cent) of companies that had planned 
to retrench their staff before Jobs Credit was introduced said they would 
postpone layoffs, or lay off fewer people, as a result of Government measures.56 
Actual retrenchment figures also pointed to the success of relief measures:  
about 33,000 jobs were shed in Singapore in 2009 and 2010 combined  
(of which 23,430 were in 2009), far lower than the 300,000 predicted by 
financial services firm Credit Suisse before the scheme was implemented.57
Skills Programme for Upgrading and Resilience (SPUR)
Another key focus of “upturning the downturn” was to prepare for the rebound 
that would hopefully happen. This meant having to equip workers with new and 
refreshed skills so that when the upturn came, Singapore’s workforce would be 
ready to seize the opportunities.A S$600 million Skills Programme for Upgrading and Resilience (SPUR), 
launched in December 2008, was developed by the tripartite partners. Course 
fees would be subsidised by up to 90 per cent, and companies would also benefit 
from an absentee payroll rate of up to 90 per cent (capped at S$10 per hour) 
while their workers received training.58 Unemployed workers could tap the 
scheme too.
SPUR worked both as a reskilling tool but also as another cost lever that the 
Government could use to persuade companies to hold onto their staff.
“Employers then said, ‘If we are not to cut jobs, how can we save costs?’ We told 
them that we don’t want them to cut jobs, and if you cannot cover the costs, 
you can go to the Government,” Mr Lim Swee Say recalled. “Then I went to the 
Government and said, ‘Look, we need to mobilise some resources to enable the 
enterprises to instead of retrench their workers, keep them and at the same 
time, train them to prepare for the future.’”59
Singapore was taking a leaf out of its old policy playbook: upskill during crisis. 
This time round, however, SPUR benefitted from a more extensive training 
ecosystem – comprising WDA, NTUC’s e2i, Community Development Councils 
(CDCs), and Continuing Education Centres – that had been bolstered over the 
past few years after previous crises.
The existing CET infrastructure – designed for “peacetime” – had to be rapidly 
scaled up during this period, remarked Mr Gan Kim Yong, who was Acting 
Manpower Minister from April 2008 to March 2009 and Manpower Minister 
from April 2009 to May 2011. “During the crisis, we almost doubled the capacity 
for training, and that was not planned. Overnight, we had to work with service 
providers to ramp up training programs, so that vulnerable workers could be 
sent for training,” he said in an interview for this book.Chapter 7: Down But Not Out142 143
Charting Our Path“One of our key considerations was that if the workers were unemployed for 
a long period of time, it would be very difficult for them to get back into the 
workplace,” he added. “Instead of laying them off, it would be better to put them 
on training and support them with absentee payroll. This way, they continue 
the discipline of an active working lifestyle, and when the economy picks up, it 
is easier for them to go back to work. It also helps employers retain experienced 
workers rather than start all over again.”60
Retaining staff and upgrading their skills would help the company ride the 
upturn. “Every downturn, cyclical or structural, cyclical particularly, presents 
an opportunity to prepare for the rebound and to emerge stronger and faster 
than your competitors,” said Mr Leo Yip, who was MOM’s Permanent Secretary 
between 2005 and 2009. “Renovate and upgrade your physical assets if you 
are a hotel. If you have a workforce, retrain them, upgrade them. If you have 
technology equipment, replace it. That is the best time.”61
Over the next few months, Tripartite Upturn Strategy Teams (TRUST) reached 
out to hundreds of companies to advise them on how initiatives such as Jobs 
Credit, SPUR, and the Tripartite Guidelines on Managing Excess Manpower 
could be implemented.62
Some employers, unsurprisingly, were reluctant to hold on to their staff. SNEF’s 
then-President Mr Stephen Lee recalled visiting an American multinational 
company that had manufacturing plants in several Southeast Asian countries, 
including Singapore. Since orders had fallen by half, they had been instructed 
by their headquarters to slash their headcount by half. Mr Stephen Lee and his 
team persuaded them against it, pointing out that schemes such as SPUR could 
provide some relief.“In the end, through a few rounds of meetings, they were able to convince HQ 
that Singapore was to be treated differently, that they don’t retrench, they keep 
their capacity,” Mr Stephen Lee added. “We suffered through 2009, but it only 
lasted about nine months. By the end of 2009, the orders started coming back, 
and out of their four plants in Southeast Asia, the Singapore plant was most 
ready to take orders, because their capacity was kept. All the skilled workers 
were still there. When demand came back, the Singapore plant could build from 
50 per cent to 100 almost immediately.”63
In 2010, Singapore staged a stronger recovery than the other Asian Tigers.  
It grew by an impressive 14.5 per cent – compared to Taiwan’s 10.9 per cent, and 
Hong Kong and South Korea’s which expanded in the single digits.64 A Singapore 
delegation was invited by the International Labour Organization to Geneva that 
same year to share how the country managed the crisis and rebounded from it.65
The city-state’s deep reserves had allowed it to bankroll schemes such as Jobs 
Credit to keep workers employed. But what set Singapore apart, Mr Stephen 
Lee stressed, was not its wealth, or its plan to “cut costs to save jobs” – hardly a 
radical concept – but its ability to realise that plan thanks to tripartite harmony.
“When we talked to Korea, Hong Kong, and Taiwan, these three governments 
were equally financially well-endowed, and had the same idea of keeping 
capacity. But they could not do it, because the employers and the unions could 
not come to terms. In Singapore, we rolled out the entire programme in eight to 
10 weeks,” he added.66
The Asian Financial Crisis, SARS, and Global Financial Crisis dealt bitter blows 
to Singapore’s economy and individual livelihoods. The silver lining was that 
they served as stepping stones towards a more resilient workforce, spurring 
MOM to dedicate more resources to one crucial gap that needed to be filled: 
skills upgrading.Chapter 7: Down But Not Out144 145
Charting Our PathChapter 8: Championing Lifelong Learning in the Workforce
Two months after SARS was eradicated in Singapore, then-Prime Minister  
Mr Goh Chok Tong delivered a sober message to Singaporeans in September 
2003: “lifetime employment” in a single company was no longer possible. At a 
time of rapid economic change and more intense global competition, the new 
model was lifelong employability, where all workers must learn to adapt and take 
on new jobs if they had to.1
It was far from startling. The need for lifelong learning for lifelong employability, 
envisioned in the Manpower 21 blueprint in 1999, was growing increasingly 
urgent. Structural unemployment had been creeping up on the Singapore 
workforce since the late 1990s, and the problem was exacerbated by a series 
of crises that had rattled the economy in the previous few years. When  
Mr Goh Chok Tong shared his prognosis, economic growth was weak and the 
resident unemployment rate was high at 6.2 per cent.2
To help Singaporeans remain employable and boost workforce competitiveness 
MOM introduced several initiatives. One of these was the Singapore Workforce 
Development Agency (WDA), a new national body to coordinate continuing Chapter 8
Championing Lifelong 
Learning in the Workforceeducation and training (CET) and facilitate employment, set up in response to 
recommendations by the Government’s Economic Review Committee. WDA’s 
mission was to enhance the employability and competitiveness of the Singapore 
workforce. It envisioned a competitive workforce, with workers learning for life 
and advancing with skills.3
“The WDA is charged with the responsibility of building a first-class lifelong 
education and training system for our workers,” said Mr Goh Chok Tong, adding 
that the agency would enable workers, including those with only secondary 
education qualifications or lower, to pivot to new industries. “In the new 
economic environment, workers should consider themselves as entrepreneurs 
selling their expertise to companies. If they start asking themselves how they 
can offer greater value to their company, so that the company will continue to 
buy their services, they will automatically want to upgrade their knowledge  
and skills.”4
Consolidation of Efforts Under a New Statutory Board
WDA was set up as an MOM statutory board in September 2003. Prior to this, 
workforce training and employment facilitation efforts were fragmented 
across Government agencies and partners. Armed with an initial budget of 
S$320 million,5 it brought a number of adult skills-related functions under 
one roof: MOM’s Human Capital Development Division and Labour Market 
Development Division were subsumed into the new agency, as were the 
Standards, Productivity and Innovation Board’s (SPRING’s) Critical Enabling 
Skills Training (CREST) Secretariat and National Skills Recognition System 
(NSRS) Centre. The new agency also took over management of the Skills 
Development Fund and Lifelong Learning Endowment Fund,6 and partnered 
with NTUC on the Skills Redevelopment Programme (SRP).7 “WDA seeks to be 
the hub that would bring all these spokes of training, all these various agencies, 
in alignment, so that training would be better coordinated,” said” then-Acting 146 147
Charting Our PathMinister for Manpower Dr Ng Eng Hen a month before the launch.8
To fulfil its mandate to facilitate employment, WDA provided tailored support 
to help workers transition into growth sectors through job referrals, retraining 
and career coaching. Among its suite of job support measures, WDA introduced 
“Place-and-Train” programmes to match unemployed workers with jobs in 
sectors such as wafer fabrication, precision engineering, and cleaning, and then 
put them through training, rather than the other way round. Directly addressing 
unemployment challenges, this was a “much more effective mechanism”, noted 
Dr Ng Eng Hen in an interview for this book. “You can train a mass group and 
then they will look for jobs, but it is nowhere near as effective and efficient as  
‘place-and-train’.” He added: “That was the reason for starting the WDA: to look 
at how we could be more effective – not in skills training, because that’s not the 
goal – but ultimately it must lead to a job.”9
He appointed MOM’s then-Permanent Secretary Ms Yong Ying-I as the agency’s 
chair, and MOM’s then-Deputy Secretary Mr Leo Yip as its CEO. The rationale 
for a new statutory board seemed straightforward enough, but not everyone was 
convinced at first. “There was quite a bit of debate over whether we needed to set 
up another agency,” Mr Leo Yip recalled in an interview for this book. “Part of the 
debate was that a new agency has its own overheads…its own corporate arm – did 
you really need it?” But given the urgency of the need to shift towards lifelong 
learning in the new economic landscape, MOM pushed ahead. “When you set up 
a new statutory board, the function of CET becomes a lot more prominent, and 
the Government has to be accountable that this new organisation will deliver,” 
Mr Leo Yip said. He added: “When you push for CET, you need to build up a whole 
ecosystem of capabilities – training providers, skills frameworks, support from 
employers, and participation by workers themselves.”10 The responsibility fell on 
the WDA to develop a more robust ecosystem for adult learning.Developing a Robust CET Infrastructure
The WDA built on a long history of adult skills upgrading in Singapore. In the 
early days, the focus was on raising basic literacy and numeracy, with the 1960 
launch of the Adult Education Board, or “Lembaga Gerakan Pelajaran Dewasa”, 
to train the adult workforce. As the economy moved up the value chain in  
post-independence Singapore, further schemes were introduced by the 
Government. The first national-level training initiative, the Skills Development 
Fund, was introduced in 1979 and gave companies incentives to send their 
workers for training (see Chapter 3). The Fund was partly financed by a Skills 
Development Levy imposed on companies. That year, the Vocational and 
Industrial Training Board, the precursor to the Institute of Technical Education 
(ITE), was also established as a result of a merger between the Industrial 
Training Board and Adult Education Board.11
As the new millennium drew near, coinciding with several economic downturns, 
the push for continuous skills upgrading and jobs-matching picked up pace.  
Post-secondary institutions offered more training options for people at different 
stages of their careers. In 1996, to tackle structural unemployment, NTUC launched 
the SRP, which became a national programme during the Asian Financial Crisis 
to help lower-skilled workers meet the evolving demands of the job market (see 
Chapter 7). Following the 2001 economic downturn, the country’s skills and  
jobs-matching infrastructure were further boosted: a Lifelong Learning 
Endowment Fund, People-for-Jobs Traineeship Programme for older workers, 
WorkSkills Training Programme to help white-collar workers plan their careers,12 
National IT Literacy Programme, CareerLink@MOM and a Distributed 
CareerLink Network of job centres around the island.
The Government believed that skills upgrading, rather than handouts, was a 
more effective way to help people who had lost their jobs. Welfare handouts – 
attractive as they might be – were not the answer. “It will kill the motivation Chapter 8: Championing Lifelong Learning in the Workforce148 149
Charting Our Pathto work, and ultimately cost taxpayers more than we can afford,” said  
then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Hsien Loong in 2005, citing how welfarism did not 
work in other countries. “The US reformed their welfare system to cut back on 
unemployment benefits under a Democrat President, Bill Clinton. The welfare 
states in Europe have also all realised that they face the same problem, and are 
trying hard to reverse the situation. The only viable solution for Singapore is to 
stay competitive, create new jobs for our people and train them to do the jobs.”13
MOM and the tripartite partners have always championed worker training, 
and the 2000s were no different, as the WDA built on the nation’s existing CET 
infrastructure and strengthened it – by identifying current and future skills 
gaps, developing courses that were more industry-oriented, and raising the 
standards of adult training.
A major milestone in Singapore’s journey to developing a comprehensive CET 
system was the Workforce Skills Qualifications (WSQ) system, launched in 
2005 as the national credentialling system that trains, develops, assesses, 
and certifies skills and competencies for the workforce.14 The WSQ system 
was an improvement from fragmented adult learning programmes that were 
institution-based and academically focused, thereby enhancing their relevance 
to a broader base of workers and businesses. WDA was responsible for WSQ 
certifications and qualifications, and the overall quality of WSQ programmes.15
A core feature of the WSQ system was close collaboration with tripartite 
partners, and industry and sector agencies, which helped to ensure the relevance 
of WSQ programmes to the demands of the economy. For example, a Manpower 
Skills and Training Council was formed with members from multinational 
corporations, small and medium enterprises, industry experts, unions and 
agency representatives to advise WDA on the skills and training needs of various 
sectors, and the design of new standards.The WSQ system successfully created competency-based certifications that 
employers and individuals accepted. WSQ’s courses were designed to offer 
modular training that could lead to full WSQ qualifications.
CET Masterplan – Building a First-Class CET System
By early 2008, WDA had made good progress: its WSQ system covered most 
major industries, and 145,000 people received WSQ training in the past  
three years.16
In February, NTUC launched the Employment and Employability Institute (e2i), 
a one-stop training and job placement centre that would complement WDA’s 
activities. It was time to “significantly expand” Singapore’s CET infrastructure, 
said Dr Ng Eng Hen at the Budget debate in March. He ran over the details of 
a CET masterplan to help Singaporeans stay competitive: set up 10 new CET 
Centres in growth sectors, nearly quadruple the annual training capacity from 
22,000 to 80,000 by 2010, and collaborate with polytechnics and ITE.17
MOM would also do more to integrate pre-employment training (PET) and 
CET. “WSQ and Employability Skills System (ESS) standards are already 
widely accepted by the industry in lieu of formal academic qualifications. But 
we will create more bridges between the CET and school systems,” explained  
Dr Ng Eng Hen. “To illustrate, a worker who has a polytechnic diploma or Nitec 
(National ITE Certificate) qualification can take up a WSQ course; conversely, 
someone with a WSQ Certificate should also be able to cross over to the school 
system to earn a polytechnic diploma or even a degree in the future. MOM and 
MOE will be looking into establishing stronger linkages between our CET and 
formal education systems.”
CET was for everybody, even PMETs who already had professional diplomas 
and degrees. Times were changing: nearly 60 per cent of the resident workforce Chapter 8: Championing Lifelong Learning in the Workforce150 151
Charting Our Pathwould have at least a diploma qualification in 2020, compared to 43 per cent 
in 2008.18 “The shape and structure of our economy will change in tandem. 
This is harder to project but generally industries will move up the value-add 
and innovation chain and will require workers with higher skills,” noted  
Dr Ng Eng Hen. “Other countries are not standing still and are also investing 
in adult training to enhance the quality of their workforce. The UK launched 
a major review of its further education system last year (2007) to improve its 
skills profile. It is setting up new National Skills Academies, introducing new 
diplomas and apprenticeships, and developing new qualification frameworks. 
We cannot afford to lag behind and play catch up.”
In December 2008, MOM launched the Institute for Adult Learning to raise 
standards as well as promote research and innovation in the adult education 
sector. Over the years, it would curate and develop programmes to meet the 
skills upgrading needs of Singapore’s training and adult education (TAE) 
professionals – through certificate, diploma and Master’s programmes, as 
well as courses in continuing professional development. It also set up research 
centres to guide CET policies, and rolled out the Adult Education Network and 
Adult Education Professionalisation initiatives to strengthen the TAE sector.19
There were some signs that WSQ training was leading to better outcomes at 
work. In a WDA report released in 2010, more than 90 per cent of trainees said 
their work performance had improved after training, and more than 90 per 
cent of companies said the training addressed skills gaps among their staff.20 
Furthermore, workers with WSQ training enjoyed greater job mobility – about 
30 per cent changed jobs in the last two years, higher than the 20 per cent who 
had not received training.21
More major milestones followed in 2014: a CET 2020 masterplan, the official 
launch of the Lifelong Learning Institute, and the opening of the Devan 
Nair Institute for Employment and Employability – a new campus for e2i’s training and career services.22 Jobseekers could avail themselves of not just 
skills upgrading and job opportunities, but also skills assessments and career 
coaching. Former NTUC President Ms Diana Chia, who likens e2i’s role to that 
of a matchmaker, stressed that people needed help landing a job even after they 
had upgraded their skills. “It’s not so simple. Even now, people are asking how 
to write resumes…they have to be guided,” she added in an interview for this 
book. “People on the ground need a face to help them.”23
SkillsFuture Movement
A significant development in the evolution of Singapore’s CET system was  
the launch of the SkillsFuture movement, to scale up efforts to invest in and 
champion lifelong learning, and help Singaporeans advance in their careers on 
the basis of skills. It was led by a tripartite SkillsFuture Council from 2014, and 
chaired by then-Deputy Prime Minister and Coordinating Minister for Economic 
and Social Policies Mr Tharman Shanmugaratnam.
“Within the Government, the natural agency to take the lead in doing this is 
an expanded WDA,” said then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Hsien Loong at the 2014 
National Day Rally. “But the WDA will need strong support from other agencies, 
employers, and unions.” The tripartite members on the council, he added, would 
drive these efforts and “develop an integrated system of education, training, 
and progression for all Singaporeans and promote industry support and social 
recognition for individuals to advance based on their skills”.24
The SkillsFuture movement, among other things, provided all Singaporeans 
aged 25 and above with SkillsFuture Credits to help pay for upskilling beyond 
the existing course fee subsidies.25 More modular and bite-sized courses were 
also introduced, building on improvements in adult pedagogy that had been 
underway since the 2000s. They were designed with the busy working adult in 
mind, allowing them to acquire new skills progressively over time.Chapter 8: Championing Lifelong Learning in the Workforce152 153
Charting Our Path“SkillsFuture is quite simply our most important economic and social strategy 
in the long term,” said Mr Tharman Shanmugaratnam in a speech in 2019. 
“Economic: for obvious reasons, because we are only as competitive as our 
skills in the long term. And it is not just about the skills that you require at the 
start of your journey, but that continuous deepening of skills and picking up 
of new skills as you progress through your career, and through life.” He added: 
“It is (also) social: because at the end of the day, we are trying to create a 
meritocracy of skills, rather than of grades earned early in life. It is a new form of  
social mobility.”26
Why a national skills movement? The Government felt that more had to be 
done to foster a culture of lifelong learning in Singapore. Many employers were 
still heavily fixated on academic qualifications rather than the actual skills of 
current and prospective staff. “We went on a few study trips to Europe and the 
Scandinavian countries, where we learnt that it was not about just academic 
certificates and qualifications per se, but also about skills,” noted former 
MOM Permanent Secretary Mr Loh Khum Yean in an interview for this book, 
adding that more had to be done in Singapore to get employers to recognise 
skills mastery. A mindset shift was needed. He put it candidly: “If I’m a worker 
and you ask me to train and attain a new certificate, but the labour market or 
employers don’t really recognise it – then what am I doing this for?” Ideally, 
the SkillsFuture movement would normalise the idea of a “skills resume” for 
workers, who would be employed and valued for their skills.27
There was also the perennial concern from employers that their workers 
would jump ship after considerable time and money had been invested in their 
training – which led to employers taking the easier route of replacing workers 
with new hires with the necessary skills. This was not ideal: employers should 
be broad-minded enough to see training as a contribution to a shared “public 
infrastructure” which they also stood to benefit from in the long-run, remarked 
Mr Loh Khum Yean. SNEF President Mr Tan Hee Teck also encouraged employers to look at the bigger picture. If employers invest in training, it will enable all 
employers to hire from a more skilled labour pool, be it employees transitioning 
from bigger to smaller companies or vice-versa.28 Still, there were signs that 
the tides were turning. More than half (54 per cent) of companies surveyed had 
adopted WSQ training in 2013 – up from 43 per cent the year before and 41 per 
cent in 2011.29
Employers play a crucial role in getting workers to go for training, stressed 
former Minister for Manpower Mrs Josephine Teo in an interview for this book.
“It is always inspiring to see workers who are self-motivated to engage 
in lifelong learning. But for many workers, there is greater drive to go for 
training when the employer proactively upholds the value of it,” she observed. 
“This is because going for training inevitably means time away from work 
and can even impact our family commitments, so workers need to see their  
efforts as worthwhile. When an employer reaffirms the importance of the 
training, there is a greater likelihood that workers see it as worthwhile.”30
Workforce Singapore and SkillsFuture Singapore
In 2016, WDA was reconstituted into Workforce Singapore (WSG) for career 
assistance under MOM, while its functions in adult training were taken over 
by SkillsFuture Singapore (SSG) under MOE. This was done “to draw better 
synergies between the work of MOE and SSG”.31
SSG aimed to promote lifelong learning and skills mastery, helping to speed 
up workforce transformation.32 Meanwhile, WSG would “maximise matching 
between jobs and skills, workers and businesses”, said then-Minister for 
Manpower Mr Lim Swee Say in August 2016. It would not just help people find 
jobs and build careers at all life stages, he noted, but also support workers in the 
face of technological disruption and help businesses create better quality jobs to 
build a stronger Singaporean Core. “This is a key priority for firms as workforce Chapter 8: Championing Lifelong Learning in the Workforce154 155
Charting Our Pathgrowth will slow and competition for manpower will only become keener,” he 
added. “WSG will support companies to adopt new business models, be more 
manpower lean, and create progressive workplaces to fully utilise the skills and 
talent of our workers.”33
Reflecting on WSG’s focus on helping Singaporeans take on quality jobs and 
careers while addressing industry manpower needs, former MOM Permanent 
Secretary Mr Aubeck Kam shared: “In the past, the labour market was able to 
recover very quickly after a recession, and demand for labour was even greater 
than before. Job matching was not necessarily a thing we spent as much time 
thinking hard about. But when WSG was formed, it went a fair way in thinking 
about how to do job matching well, including bringing players with different 
competencies to the market.” He added: “This was very timely because job 
support was moving away from a mass-production model, to something that 
needed to be more customised.”34
Promoting “career health” would be a big part of WSG’s mission by the 2020s,  
as it evolved from playing a role akin to an “A&E” – a place you do not think 
about unless you are in dire need of help – to a more “diagnostic” one that 
helped workers assess their skill sets and employability early on.
If continuous skills upgrading was important in the 2000s, it is even more crucial 
today as the pace of change accelerates. People are realising that education 
does not end at school: “lifelong learning” and “skills-based” are no longer just 
buzzwords, but increasingly part of the new normal. By helping workers to 
stay employable and transition across multiple careers in their lifetime, MOM 
remains a strong advocate of lifelong career health (see Chapter 14).Spotlight 4: Workplace Safety and Health
Nicoll Highway Collapse
On April 20, 2004, workers at a Circle Line worksite near Golden 
Mile Complex heard strange noises coming from the tunnel. “Thung, 
thung, thung” – the sounds of distress rang out from the steel struts 
for six hours. Even more troubling: a number of beams in the support 
structure were bent out of shape. But despite these warning signs, 
there were still workers on site when tragedy struck at around 
3.30pm. First, a retaining wall gave way. Then the ground trembled 
and caved in, taking down a giant 100m stretch of Nicoll Highway. 
Nearby buildings were hit by blackouts, a broken pipe unleashed gas, 
and the scene was soon overrun with emergency responders rushing 
to pull survivors out of a gaping 15,000 sq m chasm filled with rubble.1Workplace
Safety Health andSpotlight chapters highlight key topics that span multiple eras, and how 
MOM took unique approaches to address them.
This spotlight traces how the Ministry continually reformed 
its workplace safety and health regime to achieve significant 
improvements in workplace safety.156 157
Charting Our PathSpotlight 4: Workplace Safety and Health
The Nicoll Highway collapse killed four workers and injured three 
others. It was one of the worst industrial disasters in Singapore’s 
modern history, and triggered a period of soul-searching as authorities 
launched an inquiry into what had caused it. Unfortunately, it was not 
the only major accident in 2004. Nine days later, a collapse of steel 
latticework at the Fusionopolis worksite in Ayer Rajah killed two 
workers and injured 29. The following month, seven workers died in 
a fire on the Almudaina oil tanker at Keppel Shipyard.2 These three  
high-profile accidents prompted MOM to speed up the pace of 
workplace safety and health (WSH) reform.3
A Wake-Up Call
Singapore had, in fact, already made significant strides in WSH 
by then. In 2003, its occupational fatality rate was 4.7 per 100,000 
workers – a record low for the nation, and a vast improvement from  
8 in 100,000 in 1998. The Lion City ranked ahead of its Asian peers, 
with the exception of Japan.4
But being nearly-best in Asia was not good enough. Singapore, MOM 
felt, should aspire to be on par with the best in the world. One area in 
glaring need of reform was its decades-old Factories Act, enacted in 
1973, which set workplace safety rules for factories only. Modelled after 
old British labour laws, it remained an archaic fixture in Singapore’s 
legislation even as Britain itself had introduced a more modern Health 
and Safety at Work Act in 1974.5
In early 2005, a group from MOM embarked on a study trip to four 
countries in Europe that were world leaders in WSH: Sweden, Britain, France, and Germany. For a while, the Ministry had been considering 
expanding workplace safety legislation to cover more workplaces, 
and this trip would offer more clarity on how to proceed, noted  
Mr Ho Siong Hin, MOM’s Senior Director (International WSH). At the 
time, Singapore’s Factories Act prescribed a set of rigid rules to be 
applied across the board. Countries such as the United Kingdom, by 
contrast, gave companies more flexibility to manage their own risks.
“We had to make a decision on whether to expand the Factories Act 
and retain the mindset of a prescriptive regime, or move on to what the 
European countries had been doing – a more performance-based set of 
laws where you look at the outcome rather than telling people what to 
do,” said Mr Ho Siong Hin.6
Having witnessed, first-hand, the success of their European 
counterparts, the MOM members concluded that Singapore should 
replace the Factories Act with a new Workplace Safety and Health Act. 
This would cover more workplaces, and encourage companies to take 
greater ownership over safety by formulating their own measures, 
rather than adhering to a one-size-fits-all rulebook from above. After 
gathering feedback from the industry, the team presented its findings 
to then-Minister for Manpower Dr Ng Eng Hen, who announced a WSH 
framework (later supported by the WSH Act) in March 2005.
“(It) is increasingly difficult for the Government or any central authority 
to prescribe standards which can be applied uniformly to all companies, 
across all industries. The speed of technological development means 
that regulators which try to micromanage will always be playing  
catch-up,” Dr Ng Eng Hen would later tell Parliament.7158 159
Charting Our PathSpotlight 4: Workplace Safety and Health
World leaders in occupational safety and health, he noted, had changed 
their approach. “Rather than tell businesses how to run their factories 
or do their jobs, they have made businesses responsible for managing 
their own risks. Their legislation has moved from being prescriptive to 
performance-based,” he said. “In other words, no longer does the law 
prescribe that your factory windows must be 10 per cent of the floor 
size. The duty is simply to ensure that there is sufficient ventilation 
according to the number of people at work. You decide how to achieve 
this. If there is inadequate wall space for windows, or if windows are 
not practical in the work environment, alternatives such as forced 
ventilation or suction fans can be used.”
The gears of workplace safety reform whirred furiously in 2005. MOM 
formed a Workplace Safety and Health Advisory Committee, chaired 
by then-Shell chairman Mr Lee Tzu Yang, which shared best practices 
with companies’ top management. It also developed WSH 2015,  
a 10-year national strategy to halve the workplace fatality rate to  
2.5 per 100,000 workers within a decade.8
Committee of Inquiry Report
While MOM busied itself over its proposals for the new WSH Act, a 
complex inquiry into the Nicoll Highway collapse was under way. After 
a hearing that lasted 88 days, the committee of inquiry presented its 
final report to Dr Ng Eng Hen in May 2005.9
The disaster could have been prevented. There had been a string of 
“serious human errors” leading up to it, observed the committee 
chaired by the late Senior District Judge Mr Richard Magnus. “From the early stages of the C824 (Circle Line) project through to final collapse, 
there were failures to demonstrate the necessary level of care.”
“The builder did not adequately deal with insidious warning signs,” it 
continued. “A multiplicity of events led to the position where design, 
construction, instrumentation, management and organisational 
systems used by the builder and their sub-builders failed. There 
were failures in the defensive systems. There were no proper and 
appropriate design reviews. There were inadequate contingency and 
remedial measures.”
The report proposed a slew of safety recommendations, summed up 
by MOM as follows:
• Potential for major accidents must be recognised and addressed 
through use of hazard identification and risk analysis. This 
includes ensuring that the design for temporary works is robust, 
independently checked, and regularly reviewed.
• A strict weightage system should form part of the contract  
and tender evaluation system. The weightage system should 
include non-technical and non-commercial attributes such  
as safety records and culture of the bidder, and its core or  
corporate competency.
• There must be a strong safety culture among all at work, including 
continuous and visible commitment by management and 
consultation with stakeholders from design to execution.160 161
Charting Our PathSpotlight 4: Workplace Safety and Health
• Organisational and human factors must be taken into account 
when devising safety management systems, for instance: 
Instrumentation and monitoring must be carefully managed, 
especially when there is potential for public harm; Senior managers 
must be experienced enough to make the right judgement call 
either to suspend or stop work; Production pressures must be 
balanced by defensive precautionary systems; Professionals and 
sub-contractors must have the right competencies and training.
• Major projects in close proximity to the public with the potential 
to cause significant harm require particular review, and should 
have comprehensive emergency plans.
• New or unfamiliar technologies must be rigorously understood 
and assessed before being adopted.10
These recommendations were taken seriously by MOM, the Ministry of 
National Development (MND), and the Ministry of Transport (MOT). 
In a joint report that same month, the ministries detailed how they 
would act on them to rectify flaws in WSH.11 These proposals would 
help shape the reform that was already taking place.
Replacing the Factories Act
The WSH Act replaced the Factories Act on March 1, 2006, marking 
a shift from a prescriptive regime to a performance-based one. It 
focused initially on sectors with the highest accident and fatality rates 
– construction, shipyards, and metalworking factories – but would eventually be extended to all workplaces, as was the case in the United 
Kingdom and United States.
The new legislation introduced three fundamental reforms. First, 
employers would have to conduct comprehensive risk assessments 
for work processes, in order to reduce risks at the source rather 
than reacting to accidents after they happened. Second, it called on  
the industry to take greater ownership over raising occupational  
safety and health standards, rather than simply comply with 
prescriptive rules. Third, it more clearly defined who should be held 
accountable for risks and accidents, and introduced stricter penalties 
for risky behaviour.
“Penalties should be set at a level that reflects the true cost of 
poor safety management, including the cost of disruptions and 
inconvenience to members of the public which workplace accidents 
may cause,” Dr Ng Eng Hen noted. “The collapse of Nicoll Highway 
not only resulted in the loss of four lives, but also caused millions of 
dollars in property damage and led to countless lost working hours 
and great inconvenience to the public.” The maximum penalty 
of S$200,000 for corporate offenders – deemed “inadequate” by  
Dr Ng Eng Hen in the case of the Nicoll Highway incident – was 
raised to S$500,000 for first-time offenders. For individuals, the 
maximum fine remained at S$200,000 but the maximum jail period 
was doubled to 24 months. Furthermore, penalties would be meted 
out for poor safety management even if there were no accidents – 
unlike the Factories Act, where penalties were based on the amount of  
harm done.12162 163
Charting Our PathSpotlight 4: Workplace Safety and Health
Company leaders would also be accountable for safety and health 
practices at their workplaces, even if they had delegated the physical 
supervision of workers on the ground to someone else. “We realised 
we needed stronger legislation,” said Dr Ng Eng Hen in an interview 
for this book. “Previously, the company chairman, executive directors, 
and CEOs would delegate the responsibility to someone at a lower 
level, and they would not be penalised if something happens. So we 
made the CEO liable. You can delegate the work, but you can’t delegate 
responsibility. If you have been negligent, there will be penalties 
against you.”13
Partnering the Industry
As expected, many local companies were apprehensive about the 
changes as they feared incurring more costs. To ensure these reforms 
were successful, MOM knew it had to work closely with industry 
partners: share the Ministry’s plans with them, seek feedback, and 
provide support. A key part of this was the WSH Advisory Committee, 
formed in 2005, comprising 14 industry leaders and four industry-
specific committees which advised the Ministry on WSH issues.14
Crucially, the industry would have to take the lead in championing 
WSH – its members had more persuasive power among their peers  
than MOM did. Mr Ho Siong Hin, the former Commissioner for 
Workplace Safety and Health, recalled that during one of MOM’s 
consultation sessions with the industry in early 2005, some local 
companies were resistant to the proposed changes. What strengthened 
MOM’s cause was when other industry members spoke up. “There was one gentleman from a multinational company who stood up and said, 
‘Look, I don’t understand…safety and health of workers is the most 
important thing. We should not compromise on it because it’s about 
workers’ lives. Money, you can (always) earn.’ The rest of the people 
shut up, and they bought in – reluctantly, but at least they bought in,” 
he said.15
To help small and medium-sized enterprises improve their risk 
management capabilities, MOM launched a Risk Management 
Assistance Fund in 2006 to defray the cost of engaging risk 
consultants, as well as a bizSAFE programme in 2007, a step-by-step 
approach to improving WSH.16 MOM played a supportive role, leaving 
it to the industry to agitate for change. “What we did was provide 
support, the capability building programme, and let them go out to 
engage and convince the rest,” Mr Ho Siong Hin said. For example, 
the construction industry decided of its own accord to introduce daily 
safety committee meetings, which would not have gone down so well 
if MOM had mandated it, he noted.17
In April 2008, the WSH Advisory Committee became the Workplace 
Safety and Health Council, strengthening the partnership between 
the Government, industry, and unions.18 By then, Singapore had 
made great progress in improving WSH. The fatality rate had fallen to  
2.9 per 100,000 workers in 2007 – very close to the WSH 2015 target of 
2.5 per 100,000 workers. This was why a new strategy, “WSH 2018”, 
was announced in 2008 with a more ambitious target of lowering the 
workplace fatality rate to 1.8 by 2018.19164 165
Charting Our PathSpotlight 4: Workplace Safety and Health
“We should aim not only for as good a safety record as the developed 
countries, but to have one of the best workplace safety records in the 
world,” said then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Hsien Loong. “I am confident 
that we can achieve this, because if we analyse the accidents which 
are taking place, we can find many creative and innovative ways to 
tighten up safety standards and practices, to put right what we are 
still not doing properly, and to get our employers and workers trained 
and imbued with safety consciousness.”20
The push for employers to take more ownership over WSH drew 
mixed reactions. “When we said that we wanted a more performance-
based law, there were two groups of companies,” recalled  
Mr Ho Siong Hin. “The bigger companies said, ‘Good, now I have 
leeway to get things done.’ Whereas the smaller companies said, ‘This 
means that if anything happens, I will get into trouble. Could you tell 
me what I need to do, so that I can get the work done and comply with 
the law.’” To address this issue, MOM took a leaf from its European 
counterparts’ books: work with the industry to come up with codes 
of practice.21 These included sector-specific standards and guidelines, 
developed by the WSH Council, which would be particularly helpful 
for smaller companies that needed more hand-holding.22
A set of competency standards were also developed for employees at  
the operations, supervisory and managerial levels. And in 2008, 
the WSH Council launched a WSH Professionals Workforce Skills 
Qualifications (WSQ) framework – shaped through consultations with 
the industry, and anchored in the Singapore Workforce Development 
Agency’s national WSQ framework. The WSH Professionals WSQ framework showed WSH professionals how they could progress in 
their careers – for instance by rising from WSH Representative to WSH 
Coordinator, WSH Officer and eventually WSH Auditor.23
MOM made clear that WSH professionals were expected to take greater 
ownership over their contributions to the companies who hired 
them.24 “The previous law was very prescriptive…even dictating how 
many hours (WSH professionals) must work a week, and what exactly 
they must do, (such as) taking minutes of meetings. We did away with 
all these things,” said Mr Ho Siong Hin. Without these requirements, 
some of the professionals then grew anxious that this would put them 
out of a job. But he told them that they should think about how to  
add value.
“It’s not about forcing a company to employ you…If you can contribute 
to the company, the company will want to employ you, even at a 
higher price. At that time, there was a big argument about how safety 
professionals’ pay was going down. With this revamp, the pay of 
safety professionals went up instead. Safety and health are important, 
so companies wanted to employ good safety professionals,”  
Mr Ho Siong Hin added.25
The year 2008 was a fruitful one for WSH. The Work Injury 
Compensation Act replaced the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 
allowing all employees to be compensated for work-related injuries. 
This was an improvement from the previous Act, which covered only 
manual workers and non-manual workers earning S$1,600 per month 
or less. 26166 167
Charting Our PathSpotlight 4: Workplace Safety and Health
The pace of WSH reform continued unabated. From 2009, all foreign 
workers had to pass a Worker Safety and Wellbeing Test to stay 
employed. Singapore signed the Seoul Declaration on Safety and 
Health at Work in 2010, extended the WSH Act to all workplaces in 2011, 
and that same year launched a WSH Institute to carry out research, 
innovation, and capability-building initiatives. In 2012, MOM ratified 
the International Labour Organization Promotional Framework 
for the Occupational Safety and Health Convention, C187, to “align 
(Singapore’s) efforts closer with international labour standards” and 
“position us to play an even bigger role in both the region as well as on 
the world stage for WSH excellence”.27
Looking Ahead
In 2014, four years ahead of schedule, Singapore realised its target 
of 1.8 fatalities per 100,000 workers.28 Despite the good progress, 
MOM observed that the workplace fatality rate had not been falling as 
quickly as before. For a while in the early 2010s, it had hovered around 
2 per 100,000 workers.29
This led to the launch of “Vision Zero” in 2015, a movement calling 
on employers, workers, unions, and the Government to embrace the 
mindset that every accident and instance of ill-health arising from 
work was preventable.30 “What it means,” Mr Ho Siong Hin said, “is 
that you must create a culture that is not a blame culture. Because you 
want to learn…You want to focus on the solution, how to prevent the 
problem the next time.”MOM and the industry’s efforts have led to much progress through 
the years. “That sense of ownership in the bigger companies, the 
multinationals, is mostly there,” said Mr Ho Siong Hin, noting that 
these companies often have an ecosystem of contractors and safety 
professionals with high standards of WSH. What is more challenging, 
he added, is engendering the same mindset shift in smaller companies.
Even so, any progress on this front would be limited if companies did 
not also do more to address the pressing issue of workers’ health, which 
now appears the main bottleneck to the fatality rate going down. “If a 
worker is unhealthy, chances are his attention to work is not high. He 
cannot stay alert. Because of his health problems, he might (also) feel 
faint, and that might cause an accident,” said Mr Ho Siong Hin, noting 
that climate change could also exacerbate heat stress and other issues. 
“Unless you start tackling the health issue of the workforce, it’s not 
going to bring (the accident rate) down very much.”31
This concern was the basis of “Total WSH”, a programme launched in 
2014 to raise awareness of how workers’ physical and mental health 
could affect their safety at work, and vice versa. The programme 
helps companies influence their workers’ health for the better, from 
ergonomics and nutrition to health screening and mental health 
initiatives.32
The WSH 2028 report, published in 2019, reiterated this call on 
companies to make their work environments conducive to workers’ 
health. For example, companies were encouraged to adopt more 
upstream measures to prevent occupational diseases such as  
work-related musculoskeletal disorders and noise-induced hearing 168 169
Charting Our PathSpotlight 4: Workplace Safety and Health
loss. WSH professionals, the report added, should also receive further 
training to better manage the impact of workers’ ill-health – such as 
chronic diseases – on workplace safety.33 This emphasis on workplace 
health would continue over the next few years, with the introduction 
of enhanced measures to reduce heat stress for outdoor workers, 
as well as a Tripartite Advisory on Mental Health and Well-being  
at Workplaces.34
The WSH 2028 vision, which encouraged the industry to use technology 
to improve WSH, also presented a key shift in MOM’s approach: urge 
employers to see WSH as good for business, rather than a cost.35  
For instance, the report suggested that the Ministry should share 
data on workplace injury compensation claims with the insurance 
industry, so insurance premiums could be differentiated according 
to the WSH performance of a particular firm. This practice, which 
would give employers a commercial incentive to prioritise workplace  
safety, became a reality in 2019 as part of the new Work Injury 
Compensation Act.36
When the COVID-19 pandemic struck in 2020, MOM led the 
development and implementation of national safe management 
measures for workplaces. “Prior to the pandemic, I never imagined 
that working from home would become a legislated safety measure,” 
said Mr Silas Sng, MOM’s Commissioner for Workplace Safety and 
Health since 2019, recalling the measures put in place to respond to 
the evolving public health situation.37
After the COVID-19 measures were finally lifted in 2022, Singapore 
experienced a surge in the number of workplace fatalities.38 This was largely because people were “rushing and rusty,” said Mr Silas Sng, as 
businesses tried to catch up with their delayed projects with a workforce 
that had experienced some skills atrophy due to the pandemic.  
MOM took decisive action by introducing a nine-month Heightened 
Safety Period from September 2022 to May 2023. The Ministry also  
formed a Multi-Agency Workplace Safety and Health Taskforce to look  
into sector-specific safety issues, and rolled out a series of Safety 
Accountability, Focus and Empowerment measures to arrest the spate 
of accidents.39
The collective efforts of the tripartite partners and industries paid 
off, and in 2023, Singapore’s workplace fatality rate fell to a record 
low of 0.99 per 100,000 workers.40 The country had previously 
aimed to lower the workplace fatality rate to less than 1 per 100,000 
workers by 2028, something which only the Netherlands, Sweden,  
the United Kingdom, and Germany had consistently achieved.41
Once again, Singapore had reached its target ahead of time. The 
question now is whether it will maintain and improve on these high 
standards. “What’s more important is how we make sure that we 
sustain this,” emphasised Senior Minister of State for Manpower  
Mr Zaqy Mohamad during a site visit. “It’s one thing to be able to 
reach certain heights, but we want to also maintain it and ensure we 
are there on a sustained basis.”42171
The former Ministry of Labour building on Havelock Road. It was used by the Ministry 
from 1955 to 1990. (Photo credit: Lim Kheng Chye Collection, courtesy  
of National Archives of Singapore)
Workers of the Hock Lee Amalgamated Bus Company on strike at the 
company’s bus depot on Alexandra Road on April 25, 1955. The strike escalated 
into a riot on May 12. The Ministry created a new framework for industrial 
peace during this turbulent era. (Photo credit: Ministry of Information and the 
Arts Collection, courtesy of National Archives of Singapore)
The former Ministry of Labour building on Havelock Road. It was used by the Ministry 
from 1955 to 1990. (Photo credit: Lim Kheng Chye Collection, courtesy  
of National Archives of Singapore)
Workers of the Hock Lee Amalgamated Bus Company on strike at the 
company’s bus depot on Alexandra Road on April 25, 1955. The strike escalated 
into a riot on May 12. The Ministry created a new framework for industrial 
peace during this turbulent era. (Photo credit: Ministry of Information and the 
Arts Collection, courtesy of National Archives of Singapore)
172 173Charting Our Path
The National Wages Council, helmed by its President Lim Chong Yah (centre), holds its 
first meeting on February 18, 1972. (Photo credit: [The Straits Times]  
© SPH Media Limited. Permission required for reproduction.)
NTUC Secretary-General Devan Nair (third from left) speaking to reporters at a 
press conference of the first NTUC Annual Delegates Conference in 1962.  
(Photo credit: Ministry of Information and the Arts Collection, courtesy of  
National Archives of Singapore)
Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew speaking at the NTUC “Modernization of the Labour Movement” 
seminar in November 1969. The landmark seminar laid out the fundamentals of tripartism. 
(Photo credit: NTUC)  
Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew speaking at the inauguration of Productivity Month 
in November 1985. National initiatives were organised to encourage workers and 
businesses to raise their productivity. (Photo credit: Ministry of Information and 
the Arts Collection, courtesy of National Archives of Singapore)174 175Charting Our Path
Hydril workers on strike on January 2, 1986, outside the American oil equipment 
manufacturer’s factory in Jurong. The incident was quickly resolved, reinforcing the 
effectiveness of tripartism. (Photo credit: [The Business Times] © SPH Media Limited. 
Permission required for reproduction.)
Acting Minister for Labour Lee Yock Suan on 
wage restraint and cuts to CPF contributions 
in response to the 1985 recession. (Photo credit: 
[The Straits Times] © SPH Media Limited.  
Permission required for reproduction.)
Divisional Director for Labour Relations and Workplaces Ong Yen Her briefs SNEF 
members on guidelines for part-time employment in August 1990. (Photo credit: 
Singapore National Employers Federation Collection, courtesy of  
National Archives of Singapore)
Minister for Labour Lee Yock Suan speaking at the official opening of the 
Ministry of Labour’s building in Havelock Road on February 9, 1991.  
(Photo credit: Ministry of Information and the Arts Collection,  
courtesy of National Archives of Singapore)176 177Charting Our Path
MOM’s headquarters on Havelock Road has been the cornerstone of Singapore’s workforce 
development since its opening in 1991, supporting the mission to develop a productive 
workforce and progressive workplaces, ensuring better jobs and a secure retirement  
for Singaporeans. (Photo credit: MOM)
Article on the Tripartite Golf Tournament held at Orchid Country Club in October 1994. 
Tripartism has been continuously strengthened through both formal and informal platforms 
such as this. (Photo credit: NTUC)
A report in The Straits Times on November 13, 1998, detailing the National Wages 
Council’s revised wage guidelines in response to the Asian Financial Crisis.  
(Photo credit: [The Straits Times] © SPH Media Limited.  
Permission required for reproduction.)
A report in The Straits Times on February 12, 1999 on the opening of the Bukit Merah 
Skills Development Centre. It reflected the tripartite partners’ strong emphasis on 
adult skills amid a series of economic crises in the late 1990s and early 2000s. (Photo 
credit: [The Straits Times] © SPH Media Limited. Permission required for reproduction.)178 179Charting Our Path
(From left) Deputy Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong,  
Minister for Manpower Lee Boon Yang, Minister for Education  
Teo Chee Hean, and MOM Permanent Secretary Tan Chin Nam, at the launch 
of Manpower 21 on August 31, 1999. (Photo credit: Ministry of Information and 
the Arts Collection, courtesy of National Archives of Singapore)
Article in The New Paper on 
August 31, 1999 on the strategies 
of the Manpower 21 Plan to 
prepare Singapore’s workforce 
for the knowledge economy. 
(Photo credit: [The New Paper]  
© SPH Media Limited.  
Permission required  
for reproduction.)
Divisional Director for Occupational Safety and Health Ho Siong Hin speaking  
to reporters during a tour of a construction worksite to raise awareness of  
safety measures. (Photo credit: MOM)
(From left) MOM Permanent Secretary Yong Ying-I, Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong, 
Minister for Manpower Ng Eng Hen, and SNEF President Stephen Lee look on as 
NTUC Secretary-General Lim Boon Heng spells out the acronym of the Singapore 
Workforce Development Agency (WDA) at its launch on September 17, 2003.  
(Photo credit: Ministry of Information and the Arts Collection,  
courtesy of National Archives of Singapore)180 181Charting Our Path
Article in The Straits Times on April 
21, 2004 on the Nicoll Highway 
collapse. MOM reformed the 
national framework for Workplace 
Safety and Health (WSH) with the 
WSH Act on March 1, 2006. (Photo 
credit: [The Straits Times]  
© SPH Media Limited. Permission 
required for reproduction.)
The self check-in kiosks in the Employment Pass Services Centre that opened in 2009, 
which was redesigned using modern design thinking methods. The centre was an 
early showcase of customer-centricity in Government services. (Photo credit: MOM)
In Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s 2007 National Day Rally speech, he announced that 
a new re-employment legislation would be rolled out by 2012. (Photo credit: Ministry of 
Information and the Arts Collection, courtesy of National Archives of Singapore)
Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong with WDA Chief Executive Officer Leo Yip at the launch 
of the WDA on September 17, 2003. WDA was set up to coordinate continuing education 
and training and facilitate employment at a national level. (Photo credit: Ministry of 
Information and the Arts Collection, courtesy of National Archives of Singapore)182 183Charting Our Path
A report in The Straits Times on November 28, 2012 describing the illegal 
strike by 171 SMRT bus drivers. MOM officers facilitated talks between SMRT 
management and the bus drivers to address the drivers’ grievances.  
(Photo credit: [The Straits Times] © SPH Media Limited.  
Permission required for reproduction.)
A tripartite delegation shared how Singapore responded to the Global Financial Crisis at 
the International Labour Conference in June 2010. It included (second row, far left) MOM 
Permanent Secretary Loh Khum Yean, (front row, from second-left) SNEF President Stephen 
Lee, NTUC Deputy Secretary-General Halimah Yacob, Manpower Minister Gan Kim Yong, 
and NTUC Secretary-General Lim Swee Say. (Photo credit: NTUC)
The 2013 edition of the National Workplace Safety  
and Health Campaign organised by the Workplace Safety  
and Health Council. (Photo credit: WSH Council)Opened in 2012, the MOM Services Centre on Bendemeer Road serves as a 
one-stop hub for employment-related services, offering an integrated service 
experience for both employers and workers. (Photo credit: MOM)
184 185Charting Our Path
(From left) MOM Senior Parliamentary Secretary Low Yen Ling,  
MOM Permanent Secretary Aubeck Kam, NTUC Secretary-General Ng Chee Meng, 
Manpower Minister Josephine Teo, SNEF President Robert Yap, NTUC Deputy  
Secretary-General Heng Chee How and SNEF Vice President Alexander C. Melchers at 
the release of the report of the Tripartite Workgroup on Older Workers in August 2019. 
(Photo credit: MOM)
Manpower Minister Josephine Teo and Second Minister for Manpower 
Tan See Leng observing operations at a vaccination centre at Seletar East 
Camp on May 2, 2021. Frontline officers from MOM’s ACE Group worked 
tirelessly during the COVID-19 pandemic to safeguard the well-being of 
migrant workers. (Photo credit: MOM) (From left) NTUC President Diana Chia, NTUC Secretary-General Chan Chun Sing, SNEF 
President Robert Yap, International Labour Organization Director-General Guy Ryder, 
Manpower Minister Lim Swee Say, and former SNEF President Stephen Lee, at the 
International Forum on Tripartism on October 26, 2015. The Forum was attended by 800 
tripartite representatives from over 30 countries. (Photo credit: © Marcel Crozet / ILO1)
1This image is licensed under CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO. Source: https://www.flickr.com/photos/ilopictures/22598153385.
Article in The Straits Times  
on December 9, 2013 on 
the Little India riot. While 
the Committee of Inquiry 
determined that employment 
and living conditions were not a 
contributing factor, the incident 
reinforced MOM’s commitment 
to improving the well-being of 
migrant workers in Singapore.  
(Photo credit: [The Straits 
Times] © SPH Media Limited. 
Permission required for 
reproduction.)186 187Charting Our Path
Senior Minister of State for Manpower Zaqy Mohamad (centre) and NTUC Deputy  
Secretary-General Koh Poh Koon (second from right) at a visit to SembWaste on January 
26, 2021. The visit was part of the engagement efforts of the Tripartite Workgroup on  
Lower-Wage Workers. (Photo credit: MOM)
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Forward Assurance and Support 
Teams (FAST) and medical workers were deployed to migrant 
worker dormitories across Singapore to ensure their residents’ 
well-being. (Photo credit: MHA)
Manpower Minister Tan See Leng and SNEF President Tan Hee Teck  
at a dialogue with business leaders on the Workplace Fairness legislation  
in September 2023. (Photo credit: MOM)
(Fifth from left onwards) MOM Permanent Secretary (Development)  
Chia Der Jiun, MOM Permanent Secretary Ng Chee Khern, MOM Divisional Director of the 
Work Pass Division Penny Han, MOM Deputy Secretary (Workforce) Kenny Tan and staff at 
an event to recognise the launch of the Work Pass Integrated System on August 22, 2023. 
The product was recognised for seamless service delivery. (Photo credit: MOM)188 189Charting Our Path
Deputy Prime Minister Lawrence Wong (centre) speaking at a Forward Singapore 
press conference on October 27, 2023. Minister for Manpower Tan See Leng (pictured 
on the right)  was one of the people leading the Empower Pillar on economy  
and jobs. (Photo credit: [The Straits Times] © SPH Media Limited.  
Permission required for reproduction.)
Human resources professionals at a discussion with Minister of State for Manpower  
Gan Siow Huang (third from right) and SNEF Executive Director Sim Gim Guan (second from 
right) on January 16, 2024, on the Tripartite Guidelines on Flexible Work Arrangement Requests.   
(Photo credit: MOM)
MOM Permanent Secretary Ng C hee Khern (seated, far left)  and  
Minister for  Manpower Tan See Leng (seate d, second fro m left) at a  
Committee of S upply meeting with MOM staf f in 2024. (Photo credit: MO M)
WSG’s Senior Career Coach Indira Ramsundran (right) providing 
guidance to a jobseeker. WSG empowers Singaporeans to chart  
long-term career pathways and realise their potential.  
(Photo credit: Workforce Singapore)190 191Charting Our Path
MOM Permanent Secretary Ng Chee Khern addresses tripartite partners and staff on 
MOM’s policy, business and organisational transformation efforts at the  
MOM Workplan Seminar on May 13, 2024. (Photo credit: MOM)  
(From third from left) MOM Permanent Secretary Ng Chee Khern, SNEF President Tan Hee Teck, 
NWC Chairman Peter Seah, NTUC President K. Thanaletchimi at an NWC meeting on  
October 2, 2024. (Photo credit: MOM)
Migrant domestic workers celebrate International Migrants Day on December 
8, 2024 at an event organised by the Centre for Domestic Employees.  
(Photo credit: Centre for Domestic Employees)
A report in The Straits Times on 
September 11, 2024 describing the 
passing of the Platform Workers 
Bill. Singapore was one of the first 
in the world to formally recognise 
and protect platform workers.  
(Photo credit: [The Straits Times] 
© SPH Media Limited. Permission 
required for reproduction.)192Charting Our Path
Minister for Manpower Tan See Leng, Senior Minister of State for Manpower Zaqy Mohamad, 
Minister of State for Manpower Gan Siow Huang, and MOM Second Permanent Secretary  
Jeffrey Siow with staff after the Workplace Fairness Bill was passed in Parliament on  
January 8, 2025. (Photo credit: MOM)
Minister for Manpower Tan See Leng and Senior Minister of State  
for Manpower Koh Poh Koon visit the construction site of MOM’s first  
built-and-owned Purpose-Built Dormitory at Tukang Innovation Lane.  
The dormitory is scheduled for completion by Q1 2026. (Photo credit: MOM)Era 5
Productive and 
Inclusive Growth197As Singapore grappled with reskilling the workforce, another labour issue 
was brewing: Workforce constraints were becoming more binding. With 
Singapore’s ageing population and low birthrates, the rate of increase in 
Singapore’s local workforce would inevitably slow and plateau over time.
The proportion of Singapore residents aged 65 and older had risen steadily , from 
6 per cent in 1990 to 7.2 per cent in 2000 and 9.0 per cent in 2010.1 Meanwhile, 
Singapore’s resident total fertility rates slowed from 1.83 births per woman in 
1990 to 1.15 births by 2010.2 Over those two decades, Singapore’s total workforce 
roughly doubled,3 largely because of increasing female worker participation 
rates as well as growth of the foreign workforce.
During the crises of the early 2000s, the country leaned in on a rapid increase in 
the migrant workforce to fill jobs that Singaporeans were reluctant to take up, 
and to help employers maintain cost competitiveness to support the economy’s 
recovery from global slowdowns. At the same time, Singapore needed to Chapter 9: Towards a Manpower-Lean Economy
Chapter 9
Towards a  
Manpower-Lean Economy198 199
Charting Our Pathaugment the local workforce with international talents in the Professionals, 
Managers, Executives and Technicians (PMET) category, as it had embarked on 
restructuring into a knowledge-driven economy starting in the late 1990s.
As Dr Lee Boon Yang, who served as Minister for Labour and then Minister 
for Manpower from 1992 to 2003, noted, Singapore initially launched “a very  
generous employment pass scheme”, which had no foreign worker quotas 
for employers and restrictions on which geographical locations these 
workers were sourced from. “We needed these higher-skilled workers, and 
we also needed lower-skilled Work Permit workers who would build our 
HDB flats and man our shipyards,” he explained in an interview. Between 
2005 and 2009, Singapore’s non-resident workforce grew 57 per cent to over 
1.05 million, making up 35.2 per cent of the total workforce in December 
2009.4 Nearly half of these foreign workers were in the services sector, 
and about a quarter each in manufacturing and construction.5 Excluding 
migrant domestic workers, foreigners’ share of employment reached 
31.4 per cent in December 2008 before easing to a 30.7 per cent share in  
December 2009.6
But by the end of the decade, the country could no longer absorb the inflow of 
migrant workers at the same rate as before, amid rising social and infrastructure 
constraints. There was growing awareness that Singapore would have to limit 
its reliance on foreign labour, as the buildup in the foreign workforce put 
pressure on the country’s resources.
There was also the issue of flagging productivity. Annual average productivity 
growth from 2004 to 2009 declined by about 1 per cent.7 Meanwhile, the 
wages for the bottom 20th percentile of working Singaporeans, also known as 
“P20 wages”, stagnated between 2001 and 2010, with real income rising only  
0.3 per cent over the decade.8 More worryingly, there were signs that companies were becoming too reliant on foreign manpower and not doing enough to 
invest in technology and automation to boost productivity. Singapore’s 
economic growth was increasingly driven not by productivity, but by increases 
in manpower. “At one point, we had 0 per cent growth in productivity and  
4 per cent growth in manpower,” recalled former Minister for Manpower  
Mr Lim Swee Say in an interview for this book.9 “We were taking the easy way 
out to grow our economy: we were pumping in manpower, be it local or foreign 
manpower, so this was a brute force way of growing the economy. Obviously, 
that was not sustainable.”
Speaking at the Nanyang Technological University Student Union’s Ministerial 
Forum in September 2009,10 then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Hsien Loong observed 
that foreign workers had a crucial role to play in the country’s economy, but 
Singapore could no longer absorb them at the same rate as it did before the 
Global Financial Crisis. He acknowledged that many Singaporeans were 
worried and fearful about the impact of foreign workers, which had numbered 
nearly 1 million in Singapore, on their jobs and job prospects. Many locals were 
unsettled by the seeming cultural disconnect in places like hawker centres and 
even fast-food restaurants, due to the language barrier with the foreign workers 
whom they were served by.
“First of all, we cannot expect to continue booming as we have done up to 2007. 
I think after the crisis, the world economy has changed and it will be quite some 
time before it picks up like this again. But we were in an exceptional situation; 
we permitted the surge to respond to this extraordinary opportunity,” said 
Mr Lee Hsien Loong. “We always knew that we could not sustain this inflow 
indefinitely although we also knew that over the long term, we need to bring in 
a continuing flow of immigrants…We will moderate the inflows both for foreign 
workers and also for immigrants which means for permanent residents and 
new citizens.”Chapter 9: Towards a Manpower-Lean Economy200 201
Charting Our PathInstead of focusing on growth per se, the Government decided to turn its  
attention to quality growth instead – a type of growth that was inclusive, 
sustainable, and powered by productivity gains, even if it was likely to be slower 
than in the past. As then-Minister Mentor Mr Lee Kuan Yew had pointed out 
in 2010: “We’ve grown in the last five years by just importing labour. Now, the 
people feel uncomfortable, there are too many foreigners. Trains are overcrowded 
with foreigners, buses too, property prices have gone up because foreigners 
with permanent residence are buying into the market.”11 The answer, said  
Mr Lee Kuan Yew, was simple: do more with less.
Ensuring a Sustainable Foreign Workforce
The Government laid out its plans to adopt a new approach to economic growth, 
one that had a keen focus on productivity. It was announced by then-Finance 
Minister Mr Tharman Shanmugaratnam in Budget 2010,12 arising from the 
recommendations of the Economic Strategies Committee which he had chaired. 
In a Budget statement where the word “productivity” was mentioned an 
unprecedented 72 times, Mr Tharman Shanmugaratnam explained that while 
the influx in foreign workers from 2004 to 2007 had boosted Singaporeans’ jobs 
and incomes, a growing dependence on foreign workers was unwise.
“The upshot is that by allowing in foreign workers so that we could go for 
growth in the good years, we reduced unemployment and raised wages for 
Singaporeans after the standstill in the first part of the decade...This was 
therefore not a strategy of ‘growth at all costs’, but of growing our economy to 
raise Singaporean incomes.”
But with global economic conditions changing rapidly, and the local labour force 
itself seeing significant slower growth, Singapore had to shift gears. Economic growth had to focus on labour productivity growth rather than its other 
component, employment growth. The goal, he said, was to grow Singapore’s 
productivity by 2 to 3 per cent a year over the next decade. This was double 
the 1 per cent achieved in the previous decade. “Raising skills and productivity 
is the only viable way we can achieve higher wages, and it is the best way to 
help citizens with low incomes,” stressed Mr Tharman Shanmugaratnam. “If 
we achieve this goal, we can raise real incomes by one-third in 10 years. It will 
also allow us to maintain a healthy rate of economic growth of 3 per cent to 5 per 
cent a year, even with slower growth of our workforce.”
To achieve this new course, the Government announced its plans to restructure 
the economy as a whole towards higher-value activities, provide strong incentives 
for individual industries and firms to innovate and upgrade productivity, and to 
invest in people by developing a first class system of continuing education and 
training over the decade.
However, to complement these strategies, the Government had to reduce 
companies’ reliance on foreign workers. He pointed out that “growing our 
dependence on foreign workers is not a sustainable strategy for the long term. 
It will reduce the incentive for employers to upgrade their operations and raise 
productivity. We will also run up against the social and physical limits that an 
ever-increasing proportion of foreigners in our workforce would bring”.13
But the Government would reduce firms’ dependence in a calibrated manner, he 
emphasised. The aim for the next decade or so until 2020 was not to slash the 
number of foreign workers in Singapore but to moderate demand and ensure 
that they do not exceed the existing one-third proportion of the total workforce 
– with the remaining two-thirds comprising what has become known as the 
“Singaporean core” of local workers.Chapter 9: Towards a Manpower-Lean Economy202 203
Charting Our PathLevies and Quotas as a Productivity Lever
For MOM, this new approach to economic growth meant having to take a closer 
look at how to wean companies off foreign workers in a targeted fashion. A key 
policy measure was raising levy rates for S Passes and Work Permits.14
Then-Minister for Manpower Mr Gan Kim Yong explained during Budget 2010 
that the changes were not meant to stop companies from gaining access to 
foreign workers but to nudge them towards more productive operations 
through the pricing mechanism.15 “The levy tiers will allow growth companies 
to continue to have access to foreign workers but encourage employers to 
improve their productivity and reduce their reliance on foreign workers,” said 
Mr Gan Kim Yong. “We will further differentiate the levy rates between the 
skilled and unskilled Work Permit holders to encourage companies that need 
foreign workers to employ better skilled and thereby more productive ones.”
The changes would gradually kick in over two years to give companies time to 
adjust to the new realities and invest in productivity measures. But the news 
drew consternation and complaints from companies, especially those in sectors 
that traditionally did not attract Singaporeans, such as construction. Dialogue 
sessions with private sector firms and business associations also highlighted 
the concerns from employers. Many believed that raising the costs of foreign 
workers would also hurt them even as they grappled with the fallout from the 
financial crisis.
But MOM held firm. Reiterating the Ministry’s stance in March 2011, Mr Gan 
Kim Yong maintained: “If we do not catch up quickly on productivity, the gap 
with our competitors, the team ahead of us, will widen and we will lose our 
competitiveness over time...We must, therefore, push ahead with our efforts 
to reduce reliance on foreign manpower and create the necessary impetus for 
employers to turn to productivity improvement instead.”16Despite Mr Gan Kim Yong’s reaffirmation of the Government’s stance to 
recalibrate foreign workforce numbers and focus on improving Singaporeans’ 
productivity levels, public concerns about the social and economic impact of 
foreigners making up one-third of the workforce persisted.
In 2011, the Government doubled down on controlling the growth of the foreign 
workforce. Levies were further raised after Singapore’s economy rebounded 
14.5 per cent in 2010. In particular, from 2011 to 2013, S Pass levies were raised 
by nearly 60 per cent from S$190 to S$300 to moderate the demand for such 
workers, which had more than doubled since 2007.17 MOM continued to tweak 
the levy tiers across the various work passes to ensure a delicate balance between 
allowing companies to tap the strategic strengths of having a complementary 
foreign workforce and also pushing ahead with productivity growth.18
These levy increases were complemented by moves to tighten the foreign worker 
quota by reducing the Dependency Ratio Ceilings (DRCs), which specify the 
maximum proportion of foreign workers that companies in various industries 
can hire. In 2012, the Government cut the DRC for the manufacturing sector 
from 65 per cent to 60 per cent, and the DRC for the services sector from 50 
per cent to 45 per cent.19 S Pass holders were also reduced by five percentage 
points to 20 per cent.20 These DRC changes worked in tandem with increases in 
foreign levies to curb companies in the affected industries from bringing in even 
more new foreign workers. At the same time, to compensate for the resulting 
manpower crunch, particularly in the services industry, incentives such as the 
Special Employment Credit were offered to SMEs to hire Singaporean workers 
above 50 years old who earned up to S$3,000 a month.21
By the time Mr Lim Swee Say took over as Manpower Minister in 2015, the 
policies were already taking effect. The overall annual foreign workforce 
growth in Singapore had slowed significantly from 144,500 in 2007 to 34,000 
in 2014.22 More importantly, the slowdown took place across all sectors, from Chapter 9: Towards a Manpower-Lean Economy204 205
Charting Our Pathservices to manufacturing and construction. But to Mr Lim Swee Say, achieving 
the slowdown was just the first step. The bigger and more important goal was 
to achieve a manpower-lean economy. This was crucial in ensuring that the 
country stayed on the path of sustainable growth that was one-third driven by 
manpower expansion, and two-thirds driven by productivity gains.
Analyses done by economists at MTI showed that when it came to productivity 
growth, the economy was essentially on two tracks. External-oriented sectors 
such as manufacturing, financial services, and wholesale trade were achieving 
solid productivity gains, as measured by real value-added (VA) per actual hour 
worked. On the other hand, domestic-oriented industries such as construction 
and food services were not doing as well. These studies showed that the domestic 
sector was, in fact, weighing down overall productivity.23 The difficulty was  
that these sectors were also the same ones that needed foreign manpower 
because Singaporeans were not keen on the jobs they offered.
MOM reassured local enterprises that while the Government aimed to hold to 
the 2:1 ratio at the overall economy level, a higher proportion of migrant workers 
would be permitted in labour-intensive sectors such as construction, cleaning, 
and other lower-value industries.
At the same time, it would provide support to help enterprises in these sectors 
enhance productivity, particularly for companies that struggled with hiring 
locals for “triple-low” – low-wage, low-skill, and low-productivity – jobs that 
might keep them mired in the low-skill trap. “Singaporeans did not want these 
jobs, so the companies came to MOM and said: ‘Give us more manpower’,” 
recalled Mr Lim Swee Say in an interview for this book.24
When weighing how to help these affected industries, MOM had to tread  
carefully to calibrate the rise in these companies’ share of the overall workforce. 
It wanted to avoid the “negative shift share effect”, where overall productivity is weighed down by an increase in the share of employment held by the less 
productive, domestically-oriented sectors, at the expense of the more productive, 
outward-oriented ones.
For Mr Lim Swee Say, even though doubling down on the productivity-led 
strategy was painful and difficult, there was no other way. “When I came to 
MOM, I was very determined to counter this negative shift share. If we keep 
feeding more and more manpower into the labour-intensive sectors, not only 
will it pull down our overall productivity growth, at the same time, it will 
increase the demand for foreign workers,” he said. “The emphasis during my 
time with MOM is to go for manpower-lean growth. This means that if you are 
already labour-intensive, I will encourage you to be less labour-intensive. If you 
are already in the high value-added category, you must still be manpower-lean 
to keep growing in your sector.”
To truly empower these industries to become more productive and attract 
workers, the Government needed to address root causes such as upgrading skills, 
augmenting Singapore’s competitiveness as a knowledge-driven economy, and 
helping SMEs to enhance the competitiveness of their business models. Only 
when these issues were tackled holistically would Singapore be able to attain 
the kind of manpower-lean growth that would enable Singaporeans to enjoy 
sustainable wage growth.
Implementing a Fair Consideration Framework
Employers, including multinational corporations, wondered if Singapore 
was turning inwards, alongside the wave of right-wing populism in Western 
democracies. It was a common refrain that Mr Lim Swee Say had to deal with 
when he met international companies based here. “We had to tell them that 
our push towards one-third plus two-third was not inward-looking, but more 
looking at how we can transition towards being manpower-lean,” he said.Chapter 9: Towards a Manpower-Lean Economy206 207
Charting Our PathMr Lim Swee Say and his team approached the various international Chambers 
of Commerce to reassure them that Singapore remained open and welcoming 
of skilled foreign talent, in line with its position as a top global business hub. 
“We went to each Chamber – Korea, Japan, the British, China, and so on – with 
this message: Our door is still open to foreign manpower and talent, but on one 
condition – you must not discriminate against the locals,” he recounted.
To encourage employers to adjust their hiring and employment policies, MOM 
introduced the Fair Consideration Framework (FCF), which was aligned with the 
Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices. This set of guidelines, which 
took effect in 2014, sought to ensure that companies considered Singaporeans 
for all job openings fairly. If a company were to pick a foreign worker and 
discriminate against a Singapore candidate by not giving him or her an equal 
shot at getting hired, it might be restricted from hiring foreign workers. The Fair 
Consideration Framework Watchlist also identified companies with weaker 
workforce profiles – an overly-high dependence on foreigners or foreigners 
from a single nationality, for closer scrutiny. They would also be referred to the 
Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Progressive Employment Practices (TAFEP), an 
agency that promotes fair employment practices in the workplace, to improve 
their hiring practices.
These initiatives collectively supported MOM’s goal, which Mr Lim Swee Say 
dubbed 1/3 + 2/3 is greater than 1. Explaining why the sum was more than 
its individual parts, he said: “With good employers making good use of the 
skills and capabilities of our local workforce while hiring foreign workers to 
complement and supplement shortages and mismatches in our labour market, 
we will be able to create synergies between our 2/3 local workforce and 1/3 
foreign workforce to compete better together as one Singapore workforce for 
global investments and jobs, thus yielding a result greater than one.25“Conversely, allowing bad employers to hire more foreign manpower to displace 
and deny local manpower a fair chance of employment would yield a result 
that is ‘less than one’. Such hiring practices undermined the overall goal of 
strengthening the Singaporean core as we create better jobs with better wages 
in our economy,” he added.
Transforming Industries to Adapt to Manpower-Lean Growth
Slowing the growth of the foreign workforce was a big part of the equation 
to move Singapore towards a manpower-lean economy. The second essential 
component of the push was to transform companies and industries. From 
the time the shift in economic course was announced in Budget 2010, major 
schemes were introduced to help businesses enhance their processes with 
technology and upskill their workers. Schemes like the Productivity Solutions 
Grant, launched in April 2018,26 were designed to provide financial support for 
business owners to adopt pre-scoped IT solutions, equipment, and consultancy 
services to improve productivity. 
Former MOM Permanent Secretary Mr Loh Khum Yean recounted the example 
of how the furniture industry, which was once seen as a sunset sector besieged 
by challenges from global price competition, successfully transformed through 
proactive business leadership, and aided by agencies like MTI and MOM. “The 
furniture industry association banded together and forged a new business 
model: a lot of manpower and processes were shifted overseas but furniture 
design and other higher-end activities were retained in Singapore,” said  
Mr Loh Khum Yean. “The industry association members sought government 
assistance to change their model and become productive again.”
Armed with the Retail Industry Digital Plan, the Infocomm Media Development 
Authority worked closely with furniture companies to develop a digital Chapter 9: Towards a Manpower-Lean Economy208 209
Charting Our Pathtechnology roadmap specifically for furniture retailers to improve online 
and offline customer experiences while helping these retailers streamline 
their processes using data analytics and other digital solutions. This was 
complemented by a Furniture Industry Roadmap that aimed to make Singapore 
an Asian hub for quality furniture,27 as well as a Retail Jobs Transformation Map 
that the furniture industry could tap on for insights and guidance on reskilling 
their workforce.
These three tools – industry roadmaps such as the Industry Transformation 
Maps (ITMs) introduced in 2016, Jobs Transformation Maps from 2016, and 
the Industry Digital Plans launched in 2017 – accelerated Singapore’s overall 
labour productivity over the years. In 2021, Mr Heng Swee Keat, then-Deputy 
Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, told Parliament that the ITMs have 
charted “the path forward for each sector to be competitive, so that our people 
can access good jobs and opportunities which improve their lives”.28
Mr Heng Swee Keat noted that between 2016 and 2019, Singapore’s productivity 
– as measured by real VA per actual hour worked – improved significantly. 
“Ultimately, we transform our economy for the benefit of our people,” he said, 
noting that Singapore’s improved productivity led to a 3.7 per cent annual rise in 
real median income (including employer CPF contributions) from 2016 to 2019, 
higher than the 3.2 per cent per annum growth in the preceding three years.
In recent years, the ITMs have continued to propel these industries’ performance. 
Between 2016 and 2023, the ITM sectors registered overall real VA growth of 3.5 
per cent annually, with most outward-oriented ITM sectors expanding robustly, 
registering a growth of 4.2 per cent per year overall in the same period.29 This 
included sectors such as the Information & Communications, Electronics, 
Precision Engineering, Financial Services, and Wholesale Trade sectors, whose growth rates ranged from 3.1 per cent to over 9 per cent. Pandemic-hit ITM 
sectors such as Hotels and Built Environment, however, saw growth contract.
 
MOM’s policies to move Singapore towards a manpower-lean and productivity-
led growth model have been largely successful. This has translated into rising 
incomes for Singapore households. According to DOS, the median household 
income from work among resident households rose by 3.3 per cent per annum, 
from S$5,600 in 2010 to S$7,744 in 2020.30 After adjusting for inflation, this 
meant that real incomes rose by 1.9 per cent per annum.31 This pace of increase 
was faster than the 1.6 per cent rise per annum in real terms the decade before.32 
Ensuring that Singaporeans benefit from economic growth remains as important 
as growing the economy itself.Chapter 9: Towards a Manpower-Lean Economy210 211
Charting Our PathUplifting Our Lower-Wage Workers
Amid the Government’s efforts to transform businesses and the workforce to 
create new competitive advantages and fire up new engines of growth, there 
was a segment of society that remained unable to adapt to these changes and 
benefit more fully from the country’s economic growth and prosperity.
These included Singaporeans who had dropped out of school in the 1960s, and 
thus lacked the skills or education to take advantage of the new jobs being 
created. They were often also the first to be retrenched, and faced increasing 
competition from younger local workers as well as foreign workers.
Dr Ng Eng Hen, who was Minister for Manpower between 2004 and 2008, said 
in an interview for this book that the challenge of helping this group adapt 
to the changes was not one that could be easily addressed. “You could say, 
they’re capable of being trained, so let’s retrain them. But there’s a structural 
mismatch. They’re in their 50s and PSLE (Primary School Leaving Examination) 
is their highest education. They’ve been out of school for 30 years, and are now 
competing with new entrants who are ITE graduates.”1
“For the better part of 20 years, we were really focusing on pre-employment,” 
added Dr Ng Eng Hen. “The pass rate for the PSLE was 60 per cent,2 which meant 
you had 40 per cent who didn’t pass and were then out into the workforce.”
These rapid developments in the economy resulted in the wages of older and 
lower-wage workers falling even further behind those of younger, higher-skilled 
and higher-educated counterparts. Even when the job market was buoyant 
between 2004 and 2006, the real income of resident workers at the 20th 
percentile fell by 1.4 per cent.3 Between 2000 and 2005, the average monthly 
household employment income in the first two deciles fell in real terms, even as 
the real household income of the 9th and 10th deciles rose.4By the 2000s, Singapore had grown into an advanced economy. As the 
country entered a new millennium, however, a new challenge emerged. 
Structural changes in the global and local economy, along with social and 
educational changes saw a rise in income and wealth gaps, with sections of the 
populace finding it difficult to catch up.
This presented the Government with the challenge of helping these lower-wage 
workers keep pace with economic development, which in turn necessitated an 
integrated approach that would not only boost their incomes but also ensure 
that they received the right training and support to adapt to ongoing and future 
changes.
The result of the efforts was the concept of Workfare, which came from a report 
of the Ministerial Committee on Low Wage Workers set up in 2006. Today, the 
Workfare Income Supplement (WIS) together with the Silver Support Scheme 
have become key components of Singapore’s social security system, alongside 
the Central Provident Fund (CPF) which serves to meet retirement, healthcare, 
and housing needs.Chapter 10
No One Left Behind: Helping  
Lower-Wage WorkersChapter 10: No One Left Behind212 213
Charting Our PathNot surprisingly, Singapore’s Gini co-efficient rose from 0.442 in 2000 to 0.465 
in 2005.5 The issue was not just one of inequality – for some degree of income 
inequality was always inevitable in a growing economy – but one of real wage 
stagnation and structural unemployment.
A Government-Wide Effort
In July 2005, then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Hsien Loong convened the Ministerial 
Committee on Low Wage Workers, led by Dr Ng Eng Hen. The committee was 
tasked to recommend measures to improve employability and income security 
for lower-wage workers and help their families break out of the poverty cycle.6
Between September and November that year, the Committee consulted 
extensively with employers, unionists, community and social sector leaders, 
lower-wage workers and the general public to seek public feedback on how to 
improve the employability and uplift the wages of lower-wage workers. About 
20 communication sessions and activities, involving about 2,500 stakeholders, 
were organised.7
The end result of this effort to uplift the wages of lower-wage workers and 
ensure that no one was left behind, was a package of recommendations that 
included the WIS, an additional CPF housing grant, and the Workforce Skills 
Qualifications (WSQ) system. It subsequently set in motion a mindset change 
that years later spurred other policies and programmes aimed at improving 
workers’ wages and work environment, such as the Progressive Wage Model, 
Workright, and Workfare Skills Support.Why Workfare and Not Welfare
At the heart of the Workfare package was the philosophy of self-reliance. Unlike 
the social assistance schemes provided by many other welfare states, Workfare 
revolved around the idea of workers continuing to work, with the state playing 
the role of supporting – rather than replacing – individual and community 
responsibility. This, as the Government saw it, was a more sustainable means 
of supporting this group. As an article in Ethos noted, “Workfare aims to 
incentivise work and increase opportunities for lower-wage workers to support 
themselves, build assets, and facilitate social mobility.”8
In a speech in 2007, Dr Ng Eng Hen stressed the importance of rewarding  
self-reliance instead of distributing welfare. “It was clear what we did not want  
– welfare, because it would erode the very work ethic which was the bedrock 
of our success, and wage equality, which was not the economic system 
that encourages drive, innovation, and growth. We were after equity and 
opportunities – where a worker could benefit from growth if he tried,” he said.9
The concept behind Workfare was not new: similar work-based welfare reforms 
had been tested out successfully in other jurisdictions such as Wisconsin in 
the United States, where tying aid to work helped to boost employment while 
reducing dependency on welfare. It was a philosophy that resonated with 
policymakers in Singapore, which had always placed a strong emphasis on  
self-reliance.10
As the Committee noted in its January 2006 report, “The test of progressive 
societies is not whether these lower income earners exist, but if they have the 
opportunities to work and benefit from economic progress.”Chapter 10: No One Left Behind214 215
Charting Our PathThe concept of Workfare was based on four principles:
1. Continued economic growth and job creation for Singapore was the best 
assurance of a better future for lower-wage workers, which meant that  
companies and the labour force needed to remain competitive and flexible.
2. Efforts to help lower-wage workers must reinforce Singapore’s strong work  
ethic and not erode the principle that people should work to support their  
family. This was seen as critical for the country’s continued success as a  
society as well as for its economy.
3. Increasing opportunities for upward mobility should be the main means to  
help lower-wage workers and must be based on equity. Wages cannot be 
artificially propped up, for example, without improvements in productivity.
4. The focus should be kept on raising the skills and know-how of the next 
generation to create hope for their own future.
Flowing from these principles were the six spokes of Workfare, each of which 
led to several key recommendations:
1. Work would be rewarded: Workers would receive cash and CPF 
supplements as well as Housing Grants, which not only represented a 
reward for their work, but also supported the concept of self-reliance.
2. Social support to enable work: Support would be provided to help 
workers look after their dependents so they could return to work, through 
initiatives such as caregiving assistance programmes and enhancements of 
programmes to help people find jobs.
3. Higher skills for better jobs: Skills upgrading would be made more  
accessible to raise workers’ employability and earning power, with the  WSQ system and enhanced funding for training ensuring more workers 
participate in upgrading programmes that would make them more 
employable and productive.
4. Expand job opportunities: More job opportunities would be created through 
programmes enabling companies to redesign their jobs for older workers and 
facilitate the entry of lower-wage workers into new and growing sectors.
5. Creating hope for the future: Children from vulnerable families would 
get more help to complete secondary and vocational education and learn 
employable skills so that they would be better placed to join the workforce.
6. Sharing in the nation’s progress: The Government would continue sharing 
surpluses with lower-wage workers when the economy is doing well.
The Fourth Pillar of Singapore’s Social Security
Representing the first strategic thrust of “rewarding work” was the WIS, which 
sought to boost the effective incomes of lower-wage workers by incentivising 
efforts at work. Targeting Singaporean workers whose earnings are in the 
bottom 20 per cent, the WIS would raise the take-home pay for thousands  
of breadwinners and also encourage many others to find employment and  
stay employed.
This key recommendation of the Ministerial Committee on Low Wage Workers 
was a significant one, for it acknowledged that it was going to take more than 
skills upgrading to transform the livelihoods of lower-wage workers in the 
short and even longer term. As Dr Ng Eng Hen noted, the reality was that these 
workers not only faced the challenge of a structural mismatch in skills, but also 
competition from higher skilled workers.Chapter 10: No One Left Behind216 217
Charting Our Path“It was a very important, signature change,” he said in an interview for this  
book, recalling the discussions that led to the introduction of the WIS.  
“We recognised that there was a market challenge for senior workers with 
low academic qualifications, that even skills upgrading wasn’t enough. So we 
needed some, if you like, wage reform.”11
On accepting the Committee’s recommendation, the Government included a 
Workfare Bonus in its 2006 Budget.12 In the following year, the Workfare Bonus 
also became a permanent fixture, together with the WIS.13
Over the years, the WIS was regularly enhanced to benefit more lower-wage 
workers and provide greater support. The qualifying wage ceiling and maximum 
annual payout (for those aged 60 and above) was raised to S$2,500 and S$4,200 
respectively, in 2023, following increases in 2010, 2013, 2017, and 2020.
These enhancements meant that around 500,000 workers would benefit from 
the WIS payouts per year, especially older workers who were often left more 
vulnerable by changes in the labour landscape.14 In 2024, MOM announced 
that the monthly income cap would be raised to S$3,000, and payments up to 
S$4,900 per year, in 2025.15 By this time, a cumulative total of S$10.5 billion had 
been paid to 1 million lower-wage workers.16
To help workers build up savings for longer-term needs like housing, 
medical and retirement, part of the WIS payouts were credited into their 
Ordinary, Medisave and Special or Retirement Accounts. Currently,  
60 per cent of each worker’s payouts is credited into these accounts.  
Self-employed persons who made CPF contributions were also eligible for 
the WIS payouts.17 This long-term approach to helping lower-wage workers 
improve their lot cemented WIS as the fourth pillar of Singapore’s social security.  Channelling a significant portion of the WIS payouts to a worker’s CPF, noted  
Dr Ng Eng Hen, emphasised the long-term approach of the Workfare philosophy. 
“It deals with his retirement needs, his job needs,” he said.18
A Holistic Approach
Apart from providing the WIS, the Government was also focused on ensuring 
that workers continue supporting themselves on a sustainable basis.
The importance of taking a comprehensive, long-term approach to helping 
lower-wage workers was emphasised by then-Minister for Manpower Mr Gan 
Kim Yong in Parliament in 2011. Helping lower-wage workers was like a farmer 
looking after his crops. “The farmer wants the seedlings to grow strong, but 
he can’t pull the seedlings up to make them grow. He must take care of them 
with love and care. If he forces the seedlings to grow, they will end up withering 
instead. Therefore, we must continue to push forward our various incentives 
and schemes to help the lower-wage workers,” he said.19
Workfare Training Support Scheme (WTSS): In addition to the WSQ 
frameworks was the WTSS, which aimed to encourage lower-wage workers to 
equip themselves with better skills. Launched in 2010, the programme, which 
ran over three years, was replaced by the Workfare Skills Support (WSS) Scheme 
in 2020 with enhanced subsidies. As with earlier efforts to upskill workers, the 
WSS recognised that ultimately, a sustainable and long-term improvement of 
workers’ welfare requires skills upgrading and training. This was based on the 
fundamental principle that wage increases had to come on the back of increased 
productivity to be truly sustainable.
Over the years, these training support schemes have been enhanced: the training 
allowances and financial incentives under the Training Commitment Award Chapter 10: No One Left Behind218 219
Charting Our Pathfor Full Qualifications were raised to encourage more workers to attend and 
complete training, and the eligibility age threshold lowered to cover younger 
workers, among others.
The comprehensive approach to support lower-wage workers extended to 
workplace conditions. Notable programmes included:
Workright: Launched in 2012, Workright aimed to educate workers about 
their employment rights and step up enforcement of the Employment Act 
and Central Provident Fund Act.20 It recognised that the impact of measures 
to help lower-wage workers could be hindered if they remained unaware of 
their employment rights. Workright featured public education initiatives and 
workplace inspections.
WorkPro: Introduced in April 2013 to re-create jobs so as to make them suitable 
for lower-wage workers and increase their productivity and efficiency,21 
WorkPro aimed to augment local manpower, foster progressive workplaces 
and strengthen the Singaporean core of the country’s workforce. Grants were 
offered to employers to redesign their jobs and management practices to make 
their workplaces more age- and family-friendly. For example, they received help 
to adopt flexible work arrangements, and redesign workplaces and processes.22
Workcare: Introduced in 2019, the Workcare initiative aimed to improve the  
work environments of essential services workers and strengthen public 
appreciation for their contributions to society. Under this initiative, 
Workcare Grants were made available to building owners, with funding of  
up to 80 per cent of the costs of setting up or enhancing rest areas for  
outsourced workers such as cleaners, security officers, and landscape 
maintenance workers.23A Long-Term, Ongoing Challenge
The policies and programmes to uplift lower-wage workers since the 2000s have 
produced good outcomes. The Gini coefficient has improved to 0.463 in 2013 
and 0.433 in 2023. The numbers are even lower – 0.409 and 0.371 respectively 
– if Government transfers and taxes are taken into account.24 Real incomes of 
resident workers at the 20th percentile rose by 2.8 per cent a year between 2014 
and 2024, compared with 2.2 per cent a year for the median worker.25
But as the economy continued to evolve, there remained a need to look for other 
creative measures to uplift lower-wage workers. The Progressive Wage Model, 
described in the next Spotlight, is an example.
This challenge to help lower-wage workers is a long-term one. “It is an unending 
challenge because all countries, including Singapore, want their workers to 
earn higher incomes and wages, and get a better job and better life,” noted  
Mr Lim Swee Say, who was Minister for Manpower from 2015 to 2018, in an 
interview for this book. “At the same time, competition is global, so it is always 
a constant challenge to manage wage increases. As wages and productivity go 
up, we need to ensure that as a whole, we are still competitive.”26Chapter 10: No One Left Behind220 221
Charting Our PathSingapore’s Progressive Wage Model (PWM) was introduced in 2012, 
initially to address stagnant wages in the cleaning sector. By 2016, it 
had expanded to the security and landscaping sectors.
The unique wage model creates wage levels that correspond to 
different skill levels and job responsibilities. As workers upgrade 
themselves, they receive higher pay. It not only helps to uplift  
lower-wage workers but also places a strong emphasis on upgrading 
their skills and increasing their productivity. The PWM has since 
grown into a national programme that supports over 155,000 workers 
across nine different sectors and occupations.
A Shift in Thinking
In many ways, the PWM was the culmination of years of work done by 
both the labour movement and the Government to tackle a persistent Spotlight chapters highlight key topics that span multiple eras, and how 
MOM took unique approaches to address them.
This spotlight takes a look at how Singapore took a novel approach to 
uplift lower-wage workers.problem: low wages for low-skilled workers.
While earlier skills development programmes such as the Skills 
Redevelopment Programme in 1996 and the Job Re-creation Programme 
(JRP) in 2005 did help to raise the skills and consequently wages of 
thousands of lower-wage workers, there was still a group of workers 
whose wages remained stagnant. Many of them were concentrated 
in industries such as cleaning, landscaping, and security, among 
others. These industries which relied on outsourcing their services, 
suffered from a common problem, one that then-NTUC Assistant  
Secretary-General Mr Zainal Sapari called “cheap sourcing”, where 
companies submitted low bids to win contracts and so only hired 
workers at lower wages. “Cheap sourcing services have been a 
perennial concern for the Labour Movement, especially when they 
affect the welfare and job security of workers...(It) has resulted in the 
industry being caught in a vicious cycle with service providers quoting 
the lowest bid and finding it challenging to embark on productivity 
efforts,” said Mr Zainal Sapari.1
These sectors struggled to attract younger locals and often relied on 
senior and foreign workers. Low technology adoption and productivity 
were also problems in these sectors; workers were reluctant to attend 
training programmes because they saw little opportunity for career 
progression and income growth. The low wage issue was further 
exacerbated by the 2008 Global Financial Crisis.
Speaking in Parliament in his 2013 Budget Statement, then-Deputy 
Prime Minister and Minister for Finance Mr Tharman Shanmugaratnam 
noted that while the median Singaporean household income per Skills
LadderandWageASpotlight 5: A Wage and Skills Ladder222 223
Charting Our PathSpotlight 5: A Wage and Skills Ladder
member had grown by 14 per cent over the past five years since the 
crisis, “many Singaporeans who work in jobs at the lower rungs of the 
income ladder, especially cleaners, waiters, and security guards, have 
not fared as well”, having seen “little or no rise in their real incomes”.2
Initially, the Tripartite Cluster for Cleaners proposed a S$1,000 
wage floor for cleaners.3 However, Mr Lim Swee Say, who served as 
Secretary-General of NTUC from 2006 to 2015 and then Minister for 
Manpower from 2015 to 2018, was sceptical of the minimum wage 
approach. “I had three reservations about setting just a minimum 
wage. It could lead to ‘no wage’ for the more vulnerable workers (who 
would end up not being hired at all). It could become a ‘maximum 
wage’ if employers are not willing to pay beyond what is minimally 
required by law. And finally, it could become a ‘sticky wage’ if not 
adjusted regularly and frequently. The Workfare Income Supplement 
and other forms of social transfer reduced income inequality, but did 
not address the root causes of low productivity, low skills and low 
wages,” said Mr Lim Swee Say, in a Tripartite Collective publication 
in 2021.4
The concept of minimum wage has been a longstanding debate. 
Singapore is part of a minority of nations that have not adopted a 
minimum wage – according to the International Labour Organization, 
more than 90 per cent of its 186 members as of September 2015 had 
minimum wage legislation.5 Singapore’s divergence, however, is 
deliberate, said Mr Ng Chee Meng, Secretary-General of NTUC, in 
an interview for this book.6 “We actually are not on the same page 
with many other countries. We look at minimum wage, it’s a very simple idea, very easy to communicate, but very hard to get the policy 
outcomes that one desires,” said Mr Ng Chee Meng.
Ms Diana Chia, who was President of NTUC from 2011 to 2015, said in 
an interview for this book: “We decided not to have a minimum wage. 
Partly, because it’s as if you’re looking down at the minimum wage, 
and there is no way of looking up towards how much more your wages 
can grow. People want to feel that there’s a sense of career progression 
that is dependent on your ability to move up the skills ladder.”  
She added that while many countries have a minimum wage that is 
usually government-led, it is difficult to enforce.7
But if Singapore were to deviate from the minimum wage approach 
adopted by other countries, it would need a novel solution. This 
solution was the PWM, proposed by NTUC in 2010. Unlike the more 
simplistic approach of a minimum wage, the PWM would tackle 
the issue by addressing the underlying issues of low skills and low 
productivity. With the basic skills and productivity scaffolding in place 
through initiatives such as the Workforce Skills Qualification (WSQ) 
system and the JRP, the model was designed to provide a pathway for 
lower-wage workers to enhance their skills, and be rewarded for it 
with higher wages that correspond to productivity.
“The idea was that we wanted to create a ladder where the job scope 
and the job requirements are actually expanded at each higher rung 
of the ladder. And if you are able to acquire the competencies to fulfil 
the larger job scope, then it is fair that you have a higher pay,” said  
Mr Loh Khum Yean, who was Permanent Secretary of MOM from 2009 
to 2016, in an interview for this book.8224 225
Charting Our PathSpotlight 5: A Wage and Skills Ladder
Making Sure It Works
Crucial to this effort was the cooperation and collaboration of  
the tripartite partners. Employers had to pay a wage that corresponded 
with the skills and productivity of the worker in a fair and  
transparent manner.
Mr Lim Swee Say said NTUC approached the Ministry of the 
Environment and Water Resources (MEWR), now known as the 
Ministry of Sustainability and the Environment,9 to move ahead with 
the plan, since its statutory board, the National Environment Agency 
(NEA), oversaw the cleaning sector. “In 2012, we managed to convince 
MEWR because they couldn’t get enough cleaners. So they agreed to 
require all licensed cleaning companies to adopt the PWM,” he said.10
The Tripartite Committee for Cleaners, which launched the PWM in 
2012, called for a S$1,000 base wage for most types of cleaning jobs. For 
these workers in the cleaning sector, the stipulated S$1,000 wage floor 
set out by the PWM was a 17.6 per cent increase from the median basic 
wage of full-time resident cleaners of S$850 then.11 Cleaners could 
expect to earn higher wages over their careers that were pegged to 
higher levels of skills, job responsibilities, and productivity. The PWM 
was also enforceable since NEA was the regulator issuing licences for 
cleaning companies. As a result, compliance was high.
In April 2013, the Government announced that all its agencies would 
only engage cleaning companies with the NEA Enhanced Clean 
Mark Accreditation, which mandated the adoption of the PWM. By 
September 2014, the PWM became a mandatory requirement for all new cleaning contracts, and by September 2015, applied to existing 
cleaning contracts signed before the requirement was mandated.12  
Part of the licensing conditions included workers having at least one 
WSQ certificate in environmental cleaning modules, but recommended
that they obtain at least two such certificates.13 This requirement was 
in line with the goal for the PWM to raise the skills and productivity of 
lower-wage workers along with their wages.
Reflecting on the licensing requirement for the PWM, Mr Felix Loh,  
CEO of Gardens by the Bay and former SNEF Deputy Honorary 
Secretary, said in a Tripartite Collective publication in 2021 that 
it helped to ensure that the companies in the sectors would move 
together in implementation. This also addressed employers’ concerns 
that they would become less competitive by adopting the PWM 
compared to other companies which did not.14
With a successful model of implementation in place, the PWM 
was expanded to other sectors. The security sector was next, with 
discussions beginning in 2014. The PWM became mandatory under 
the Police Licensing and Regulatory Department’s licensing regime in 
September 2016, with firms having to ensure that all security officers 
completed their required training under the WSQ scheme.15 The wage 
floor set for the security sector was S$1,100, up 28.4 per cent from the 
median basic wage of S$857 in 2014.16
In 2016, the PWM was also implemented in the landscaping sector, 
where workers benefitted from a basic wage of at least S$1,300, up 4 
per cent from the median basic wage of S$1,250 in 2015.17 Adoption of 
the PWM was also made a requirement for landscape companies on 226 227
Charting Our PathSpotlight 5: A Wage and Skills Ladder
the Landscape Company Register administered by the National Parks 
Board.18 “By 2016, we had three sectors with the PWM in place, which 
demonstrated that it could be done,” said Mr Lim Swee Say.19
Expanding the PWM to Even More Sectors
By 2019, median real wages of local workers in the three PWM sectors 
had grown by an average cumulative 30 per cent,20 higher than the 
21 per cent increase at the median for all sectors.21 However, the 
PWM’s overall coverage was limited, with only about 10 per cent of 
all lower-wage workers benefitting, since the PWM only applied to 
the three sectors.22 To address this, a Tripartite Workgroup on Lower-
Wage Workers was formed in October 2020 to discuss the long-term 
strategy for supporting lower-wage workers.
The key question was whether the PWM could play a larger role in 
pushing up wages. Headed by Mr Zaqy Mohamad, Senior Minister 
of State for Manpower and Defence, the workgroup consulted over 
1,800 individuals from unions, employers, members of the public 
and lower-wage workers over ten months, and eventually released 
its report in August 2021.23 The report detailed 18 recommendations 
in three key areas: first, to expand the progressive wage approach to 
cover the majority of lower-wage workers within the next two years; 
second, to accelerate and sustain progressive wage growth over the 
next decade; and third, to garner whole-of-society support for lower-
wage workers.24
Speaking in Parliament after the recommendations were accepted by the Government in 2021, Mr Zaqy Mohamad said: “The workgroup’s 
vision is for a strengthened social compact where everyone enjoys 
Singapore’s fruits of growth. We want to enable our lower-wage 
workers to progress along with other workers.”25
As part of the workgroup’s recommendations, the PWM would 
be expanded to more sectors and include occupations that span 
different sectors. The Progressive Wage Mark was also introduced as a 
prerequisite for companies to bid for public sector contracts, with the 
aim of encouraging voluntary adoption of the PWM.
Writing in a letter to the workgroup, Mrs Josephine Teo, Minister for 
Communications and Information and advisor to the workgroup, and 
Dr Tan See Leng, Minister for Manpower, said: “The Government and 
the Ministry of Manpower in particular, will continue to work closely 
with our tripartite partners and other stakeholders to implement 
the recommendations. When successfully carried out, they will help 
our lower-wage workers experience sustained wage growth and 
career progression, in tandem with their efforts to upskill and build 
experience in their jobs.”
During the 2021 National Day Rally, Mr Lee Hsien Loong announced 
that the expanded PWM would cover eight in ten lower-wage 
workers.26 It was validation of the hard work the tripartite partners 
had put in, said Mr Lim Swee Say. More importantly, the PWM would 
go a long way to address the needs of lower-wage workers.
Less than three years on, as of March 2024, more than 155,000  228Charting Our Path
lower-wage workers across nine sectors and occupations have 
benefitted from the PWM.27 These include seven sectors – the initial 
three of cleaning, security, and landscape, and the recently added 
lift and escalator sector, retail sector, food services sector and waste 
management sector – and two occupations, namely drivers and 
administrators.28 Giving an update in 2024 on the progress of the 
expansion of the PWM, Mr Zaqy Mohamad said in Parliament that the 
155,000 figure was “more than five times the coverage in 2020”, adding 
that “real incomes of lower-wage workers at the 20th percentile have 
risen cumulatively by 30 per cent from 2013 to 2023, faster than the 
median worker at 22 per cent”.29
Looking back, Mr Lim Swee Say said: “I was in the audience that 
day during the 2021 National Day Rally, and I was so happy that  
Mr Lee Hsien Loong declared the PWM as a national programme.  
He asked, would the tripartite partners be able to meet the ambitious 
target, and I said we must make it happen.”30 With the PWM,  
lower-wage workers can now look forward to higher skills, higher 
productivity, and higher wages.Era 6
Managing Our  
Migrant Workforce231Migrant workers have been indispensable for much of Singapore’s 
extraordinary story of economic growth. After the city-state achieved 
full employment in the early 1970s,1 it tapped on imported labour to 
augment its local workforce – especially since the pace at which it was 
attracting investments and creating jobs far outstripped domestic capacity.2 
Consequently, the succeeding decades saw the number of migrant workers 
engaged in non-domestic work rise to about 843,000 as of June 2024.3
Hailing from countries such as the People’s Republic of China (PRC), Bangladesh, 
India, and Malaysia, migrant workers have complemented Singapore’s small 
local workforce, enabling its economy to maintain its competitive edge against 
larger countries. The supply of migrant workers, which refers to Work Permit 
holders including migrant domestic workers (see Chapter 12), has allowed 
Singapore to grow during critical windows of opportunity, while at the same 
time filling necessary jobs eschewed by locals.Chapter 11: Migrant Worker Management
Chapter 11
Migrant Worker Management232 233
Charting Our PathBut there is a social cost that comes with the growth of the migrant worker 
population in Singapore. This is the trade-off that comes with economic growth, 
recognised as early as 1972 by then-Minister for Finance Dr Goh Keng Swee. As 
he summed up in a speech delivered that year at the University of Singapore: 
“The question we must answer sooner or later is this: ‘When do we stop 
growing?’ Or to be more precise, at what point do we stop importing foreign 
workers and cease to encourage foreign entrepreneurs and capital in Singapore?  
Because of our limited land area, industrial expansion together with the 
concomitant population expansion will produce overcrowding to increasingly 
uncomfortable limits.”4
For MOM, the challenge is two-fold. The first is to calibrate the inflow of migrant 
workers so as to balance between growth, productivity, and social objectives – 
an issue that is explored in Chapter 9. The second challenge, which this chapter 
examines, is on managing the migrant workforce in Singapore. In particular, 
this means improving the employment and living conditions of migrant workers 
and supporting their recreational needs, and by extension, their mental health  
and well-being.
Over time, MOM’s approach to migrant workers had to evolve – not just to 
stay one step ahead of the next challenge, but to build the necessary capacity 
to tackle future challenges. This chapter traces MOM’s journey in managing 
the large population of migrant workers in Singapore, and how it progressed 
beyond punitive measures meant to promote compliance to forward-looking 
initiatives that aim to achieve a well-managed migrant workforce – one that 
not just functions well, but is also resilient to crises.Illegal Employment: A Persistent Problem
After the 1985 recession, Singapore rebounded quickly, growing by about  
2.9 per cent by the third quarter of 1986.5 This would surge to an average 
growth rate of above 9 per cent each year for the next decade.6 However, the 
number of illegal workers grew in tandem, with some 1,400 foreigners caught 
working without a valid permit or in jobs their permits did not allow them 
to take up in 1987.7 This number was more than double that of 1986. In 1988,  
the number of overstayers arrested reached 4,120, many of whom were illegal 
workers.8 The trend was perhaps unsurprising, given that illegal workers were a 
tempting prospect for employers trying to cut costs or avoid paying the migrant 
worker levy.
Speaking in Parliament on October 4, 1990, then-Minister for Labour Mr Lee 
Yock Suan said: “Such illegal employment has to be checked as it undermines 
our economic strategy.”9 He went on to announce the Employment of Foreign 
Workers Bill, which aimed to make illegal employment unprofitable for 
employers by imposing harsher penalties. The Bill allowed enforcement officers 
to enter and search suspicious premises, conduct arrests, and retain travel and 
identity documents – an attempt to prevent cases where foreigners refused to 
hand over their papers to enforcement officers.
At the same time, MOM stepped up enforcement efforts by conducting more 
raids in shipyards, construction sites, hotels, restaurants, furniture and garment 
factories, and even hairdressing salons.10 But enterprising employers continued 
to find creative workarounds, with some deploying their workers illegally to 
other sectors or workplaces. Between 2000 and 2002, some 730 employers or 
individuals were arrested by MOM for illegal deployment of workers.11Chapter 11: Migrant Worker Management234 235
Charting Our PathMore Teeth for Legislation
Stemming the tide of illegal workers was a serious matter for MOM, which 
had to protect local workers from unfair job competition as well as prevent the 
exploitation of migrant workers. Importantly, a well-managed migrant worker 
population would also help Singapore polish its international reputation as 
an attractive destination for work, especially since competition for migrant 
workers was heating up globally. Demand for labour was growing in places 
such as China and the Middle East, and losing out could have severe economic 
repercussions for Singapore, which depended heavily on migrant workers in 
industries such as marine shipyard and construction.
As such, the Government had to focus on lifting minimum standards of 
employment conditions by promoting compliance among both businesses and 
migrant workers. This included tackling a whole host of issues such as illegal 
employment and salary arrears, which would in turn alleviate challenges that 
MOM had to deal with.
In his address to Parliament on May 22, 2007, then-Minister for Manpower 
Dr Ng Eng Hen acknowledged that it was natural for workers to seek better 
employment opportunities abroad in an era of globalisation, and that such a 
phenomenon benefitted both sending and receiving countries.12 However, he 
emphasised the need for a “robust system with effective laws, enforcement, and 
safeguards against the illegal entry and employment of foreign workers, (that 
also) ensure(s) that their well-being is protected”.
During the same speech, Dr Ng Eng Hen announced that the Employment of 
Foreign Workers Act would be renamed the Employment of Foreign Manpower 
Act (EFMA) “to reflect its broader coverage”, as it would be “the key legislation 
governing the employment of foreigners at all levels in Singapore”. The updated 
legislation would impose harsher penalties on employers who hired workers illegally, including heavier fines and a mandatory jail term for repeat offenders. 
New offences, such as the selling, forging, or illegal alteration of a work pass, 
were introduced. As with earlier legislative moves, the updated Act increased 
the enforcement powers of administrative officials to a level similar to that 
of immigration officials under the Immigration Act. MOM’s Employment 
Inspectors would be able to arrest both local and foreign suspects without a 
warrant when it came to those who had committed severe offences.
Armed with more teeth under the amended law, MOM targeted syndicates that 
were illegally bringing in migrant labour. One such bust in 2009 saw four men 
running a labour syndicate arrested, including a Bangladeshi believed to be the 
mastermind. They were charged with more than 200 offences under the EFMA 
for illegally bringing in about 100 migrant workers, who were subsequently sent 
to work for other companies or told that they had to find work on their own.13
In 2012, the EFMA was amended to impose a new penalty regime against law-
breaking employers. Under the new regime, administrative infringements – 
such as deducting levies and other employment costs from migrant workers’ 
salaries – would be declassified as criminal offences. Far from going soft, 
this was an effort to shorten the lengthy and resource-consuming process of 
prosecution so that MOM could take more effective action against offenders.14 
Work pass conditions were updated to provide greater clarity on employers’ 
responsibilities at different phases of a migrant worker’s employment, while 
MOM’s investigatory powers were further expanded to facilitate stronger 
enforcement action against increasingly sophisticated labour syndicates.
On the ground, there were positive signs that the efforts were making a  
difference. A survey of migrant workers in 2014 by MOM and the Migrant 
Workers’ Centre – a non-governmental organisation that championed their 
welfare – found that the majority of migrant workers (87.7 per cent) were 
satisfied with working in Singapore.15 The number of those who reported being Chapter 11: Migrant Worker Management236 237
Charting Our Pathdissatisfied had fallen from 5.2 per cent in 2011, when the inaugural survey 
was conducted, to 2.8 per cent in 2014. More than nine in 10 also reported that 
working conditions matched with what they had been promised by middlemen 
who helped them secure employment in Singapore.
Dormitories: Improving Living Conditions
Another major issue MOM had to deal with when it came to addressing minimum 
standards was the issue of housing. To support housing needs, the Government 
allowed employers to convert some factories into temporary living quarters. 
These Factory-Converted Dormitories (FCDs) were largely run by employers, 
and were subject to standards set by MOM. Employers were also allowed  
to set up Construction Temporary Quarters (CTQs) to house migrant  
workers on construction sites. As of 2007, the responsibility for providing 
acceptable accommodation lay with employers, and had been encoded into 
Work Permit conditions.16
Still, some living spaces fell short of hygiene and safety standards. To better 
meet the housing needs of migrant workers, the Government announced in 
2008 that about 11 Purpose-Built Dormitories (PBDs) – that is, dormitories 
that came equipped with recreational facilities and other amenities – would 
be built by 2011, adding up to 65,000 beds.17 But where these migrant worker 
dormitories were located was a sensitive point for Singaporeans.
In 2008, some 600 residents of the Serangoon Gardens housing estate banded 
together to sign a petition against potential Government plans to turn an 
unused school in the area into a dormitory for migrant workers.18 According 
to the petition, the move would “create security and social problems and 
spoil the ambience of the estate”. This incident highlighted that the issue of 
migrant worker housing was not one that impacted just migrant workers, but 
communities living near dormitories. In attempting to raise living standards for migrant workers, MOM returned to fundamental constraints – the quality and 
quantity of space set aside for them. “The Government’s longer-term view is that 
the accommodation needs of Work Permit holders are best met in…dormitories 
where there are self-contained living, social, and recreational facilities,” said 
then-Minister for Manpower Mr Tan Chuan-Jin in Parliament in 2015.19 He was 
referring to PBDs, which were better equipped to handle a wider range of needs. 
In fact, the Government had already been launching newer, larger PBD sites over 
the past few years, and would continue doing so to cater to the housing needs of 
migrant workers. “Such larger PBDs will form an increasingly prominent part of 
the foreign worker housing landscape,” he added.
FEDA: A Holistic Approach
The Little India riot that occurred as a result of a fatal traffic accident on 
December 8, 2013, sparked further moves into adjusting policies relating to 
migrant worker dormitories. While the Committee of Inquiry – convened in 
2013 to look into the cause of the riot – found that systemic dissatisfaction 
with employment and living conditions in Singapore were not a contributing 
factor,20 the incident still spurred some reflection within MOM. “The incident 
reinforced our commitment and ongoing efforts on this front,” reflected former 
MOM Permanent Secretary Mr Loh Khum Yean in an interview for this book.21 
“It highlighted the point that it’s not just about their working conditions, or just 
about housing standards, or recreational opportunities. It’s about their overall 
life experience in Singapore.”
In 2015, the Foreign Employee Dormitories Act (FEDA) was passed as part of the 
security measures that arose from the riot.22 The Act targeted larger dormitories 
with 1,000 beds or more, and required that they would have to fulfil licensing 
conditions in areas such as public health and safety as well as the provision and 
maintenance of social facilities and commercial services.Chapter 11: Migrant Worker Management238 239
Charting Our PathRecreational facilities were also worked into FEDA requirements for  
new-and-improved PBDs. While the first migrant worker recreation centre (RC) 
was already launched by the Singapore Contractors’ Association Limited in 
2009, there remained a need for more recreational options. In 2014, MOM had 
announced that the number of RCs would be doubled from four to eight by the 
end of 2015, providing migrant workers with more places to rest and relax after 
work.23 Such dedicated RCs offered amenities including canteens, supermarkets, 
hard courts, and even beer gardens.
Nonetheless, the RCs were not a perfect solution. “The reality is that they 
can never totally replace popular spots like Little India…Foreign workers 
need a place to come together to catch up with old friends, to catch up on 
news from the village, have a taste of food from home, and meet friends and 
relatives from across the island for a few precious hours that they have,” said  
Mr Tan Chuan-Jin during his statement in Parliament post-riot.24
Although RCs were not a panacea, stepping up the quality, diversity, and 
availability of their offerings would be vital in helping them serve broader 
swathes of the migrant worker community. Critical to this effort would be 
enriching the “gene pool” of operators to bring in fresh ideas and concepts.  
In 2024, MOM announced that it would appoint external partners to operate 
RCs, starting with NTUC which would take over three RCs from August 2024.25 
This decision built on NTUC’s understanding of migrant workers’ needs and its 
experience in running the Migrant Workers’ Centre, which was set up in 2009 
together with the Singapore National Employers Federation. NTUC would also 
be able to leverage its network of social enterprise and recreational offerings 
to enhance the attractiveness of the RCs.26 Such an arrangement had the 
added benefit of stepping up collaboration within the ecosystem of NGOs and 
community partners to serve the migrant population better.Major events like the COVID-19 pandemic, which saw dormitories become 
hotbeds for the virus, offered other lessons in migrant worker housing for 
MOM. To deal with future pandemics, FEDA was expanded to all dormitories 
with seven beds or more in 2023. This meant that some 1,600 dormitories and 
a total of 439,000 beds would be covered under the law, a substantial increase 
from the 53 dormitories and 256,000 beds that were covered previously.27 
A key reason for the move was to enable MOM to “raise and enforce housing 
standards very quickly across the various dormitory types and sizes, and to 
introduce new housing standards to make dormitory living more resilient to 
public health risks”, said Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng in Parliament 
in March 2021.28
Alongside the expansion of FEDA, MOM implemented new and improved 
standards for new and existing PBDs and FCDs, which was announced in 2021. It 
also rolled out the Dormitory Transition Scheme to support dormitory operators 
and employers to transition to a set of improved standards by 2040.29 In 2022, 
MOM also announced that it would take on the responsibility of building and 
managing two PBDs in Tukang Innovation Lane and Sengkang West via NESST 
Singapore. NESST is a company limited by guarantee that was set up by MOM 
to pilot innovations in dormitory design to improve living conditions for 
workers while strengthening public health resilience.30 These offer learning 
opportunities for MOM to strengthen its capabilities in regulating dormitories, 
and are the latest efforts in the Ministry’s multi-year journey to improve the 
housing resilience of the migrant worker population.
Sustained efforts have borne fruit. Today, a room in a dormitory built according 
to new housing standards might look something like this: 12 beds neatly arranged 
in a room with 4.2 sq m of space per resident, ceiling fans spinning above,  
en-suite toilets, and possibly even an air-conditioning unit for balmy nights.31 
Such living conditions represent a great improvement from the decades before. 
In the span of some 40 years, MOM – with the help of employers, dormitory Chapter 11: Migrant Worker Management240 241
Charting Our Pathoperators, and other partners – transformed migrant worker dormitories into a 
regulated industry in its own right, serving the needs of the migrant population 
and Singaporeans by extension.
Assurance, Care and Engagement
At a glance, MOM’s management of migrant workers has come a long way. Its 
initial focus on enforcement and regulation in the 1980s has since evolved into 
a more proactive approach, one that values engagement and collaboration not 
just with migrant workers, but with the wider ecosystem of stakeholders. This 
shift in approach was cemented by the COVID-19 pandemic (see Spotlight 6), 
during which MOM found itself in the position of having to manage hundreds 
of thousands of migrant workers staying in the dormitories.
In the initial, hectic months of the pandemic, the task of managing this vast 
population fell to the Inter-Agency Task Force (ITF), which had been formed by 
the Government to prevent the situation in the dormitories from spiralling out 
of control. It was only in August 2020 that the ITF handed over its operations  
to a newly created MOM division, the Assurance, Care and Engagement  
(ACE) Group.
The ITF “was very successful in winning foreign workers over – they saw that 
officers were there to help them”, said former MOM Permanent Secretary  
Mr Aubeck Kam in an interview for this book.32 “The trust built up during the 
period when we were in Circuit Breaker, and coming out of it, demonstrated the 
impact of having that direct link to the Government.” This was a new, added 
dimension to the relationship, which was previously premised on regulation 
and enforcement. “Trust is the key to how we manage future crises. It’s part of 
the recipe for resilience,” he added.As it took over the mantle of the ITF, ACE Group’s focus was on supporting 
the well-being of migrant workers by tapping into the strong network of 
partners and collaborators among dorm operators, NGOs, employers, welfare 
organisations, and more, which had solidified in the trenches of the pandemic. 
While its immediate focus was on pressing ahead with the ITF’s efforts to 
strengthen dormitories against public health threats, its long-term focus was 
on building up healthcare, housing, and social resilience for migrant workers, 
and creating opportunities for stakeholders to collaborate to improve workers’ 
welfare.
For instance, through the Primary Care Plan, migrant workers would now be 
able to access affordable and quality primary healthcare services – reducing 
the chances of being caught off-guard by another pandemic. ACE Group 
represented, in other words, a move upstream, as well as a direct line between 
MOM and migrant workers. This relationship in turn involved a wider ecosystem 
of partners, with ACE Group acting as a “catalyst for collective action”, in the 
words of its chief Mr Tung Yui Fai.33 Solutions and outcomes would now be  
co-owned by all stakeholders and not just regulators.
MOM’s initiatives, taken collectively, were part of a broader effort to build 
“societal capacity”, in Mr Loh Khum Yean’s words.34 Foreign manpower was not 
just a numbers game, but a human issue. How many could Singapore take? The 
figure had to be arrived at by considering the economy’s needs as well as the 
needs of Singaporeans and migrant workers too. “Limits to Singapore’s intake 
of foreign manpower will be more flexible given better infrastructure, better 
integration of foreigners, better interaction and support, better engagement,” 
he said.
“I always held this view that MOM’s position on foreign workers is a reflection 
of the cumulative preferences of all Singaporeans,” said Mr Aubeck Kam.35 Chapter 11: Migrant Worker Management242 243
Charting Our Path“What are we comfortable with? What do we think makes sense? What are we 
prepared to pay for?” When answering these questions, MOM must consider 
not only the welfare of migrant workers and Singaporeans alike, but also the 
long-term sustainability of Singapore’s intake of migrant manpower. It is a 
delicate balancing act, but one with a worthy pay-off.
Migrant domestic workers (MDWs), defined by the International Labour 
Organization as workers who perform work in or for households 
outside their country of origin, including direct and indirect care services,1 are 
a fixture in Singapore. As at June 2024, they numbered 294,800, accounting 
for about 19 per cent of the total foreign workforce.2 The demand for MDWs 
among Singaporean households has risen over the years, with one in five 
households employing an MDW in 2023,3 up from one in 13 slightly over three  
decades ago.4
Demand for MDWs has been driven by the ageing population and the 
corresponding rise in caregiving needs. In Singapore, MDWs play an increasingly 
indispensable role. Beyond carrying out household chores such as cooking and 
cleaning, they also perform more intimate tasks such as caring for children and 
aged parents. But the benefits of MDWs extend beyond the household. Their 
presence has been linked to increased female labour force participation rates, 
as more women are freed from traditional household roles and able to pursue 
employment. This endeavour was especially critical in Singapore in the 1970s Chapter 12: Migrant Domestic Workforce
Chapter 12
Migrant Domestic Workforce244 245
Charting Our Pathand 1980s as the country began transitioning towards high-growth industries, 
and remains critical as the workforce ages.
Ensuring good employment conditions for MDWs is key for MOM, given that 
they work in the private realm of the household, a space which is difficult to 
regulate compared to conventional workplaces which are protected under 
Singapore’s main labour law, the Employment Act. While territories like Hong 
Kong have opted to include MDWs in laws that apply to the general population 
of local workers, Singapore has adopted a different approach. MDWs here 
are covered under the Employment of Foreign Manpower Act (EFMA), which 
provides for customised employment standards and conditions tailored to the 
nature of work in a household.
As the economies of the countries where Singapore’s MDWs come from develop 
over time and begin to offer more prospects for work, ensuring better working 
conditions and improving the well-being of MDWs have become increasingly 
important to maintain Singapore’s reputation as a destination of choice.
Balancing Economic and Social Objectives
When Singapore ramped up its drive to industrialise in the 1970s, one problem 
quickly surfaced. The city-state was short of labour, and women were a critically 
under-utilised resource. In 1970, the female labour force participation rate for 
female citizens aged 10 years and above stood at only 25.6 per cent,5 compared 
with developed countries like the United States where the participation rate for 
females aged 16 and above was 43 per cent.6 For many women in Singapore, 
seeking employment was not a priority, with many opting to stay home and 
care for the family.
Freeing them up required a rethinking of the role of women. One solution was 
to build more childcare centres in housing estates so that women would be free to take up jobs in factories, which were increasingly located close to residential 
areas.7 Some argued that this was a better option than hiring MDWs, with 
children able to benefit from a more “organised, collective life”.8 This idea was 
taken up by the Government, which announced in 1973 that six more childcare 
centres across the country would be built, bringing the total number up to 18.9
But the labour shortage persisted. One survey conducted by the National 
Employers Council in 1978 estimated that some 7,500 and 10,000 workers were 
needed in the garment industry alone.10 To ease the manpower crunch and enable 
more women to work, MOL decided to increase the supply of MDWs. In May 
1978, it introduced a new Work Permit scheme which would allow employers 
to hire women from countries such as the Philippines, Thailand, and Sri Lanka.11 
The scheme complemented the Domestic Servant Scheme at that time, which 
allowed employers to hire only women from Malaysia and Indonesia.12
The move, alongside other measures to encourage women to enter the workforce, 
bore fruit. By 1988, a decade later, the female labour force participation rate was 
at 47.8 per cent – an increase of more than 3 percentage points from 1980.13 But 
even as MOL relaxed the Work Permit policy, it introduced caveats to ensure 
that employers fulfilled their obligations to MDWs. For one, employers had to 
place a security bond of S$5,000, which could be forfeited if they breached the 
conditions of the Work Permit. For example, failing to send their MDW home 
after the expiry of the Work Permit would result in forfeiture of the bond. This 
practice, which encourages compliance, remains in place today, applying to all 
MDWs except Malaysians.14 In 1984, MOL also introduced a flat levy of S$120 
a month, replacing the previous system where employers were taxed 30 per 
cent of MDWs’ salaries. This was implemented because several employers were 
abusing the system by under-declaring their MDWs’ salaries and subsequently 
hiring more of them for purposes other than domestic work.15Chapter 12: Migrant Domestic Workforce246 247
Charting Our PathDisincentives like the levy made it clear that Singapore did not intend to allow 
an unrestricted flow of MDWs into the country, a position that successive 
generations of Labour Ministers have reiterated. In 1984, then-Minister for 
Labour Professor S. Jayakumar said: “The Government believes that hiring maids 
is not the only way that married women can go to work…Let us not get into a 
situation where we will not explore other initiatives such as part-time work, 
flexible working hours, and creches to cater to the needs of working mothers.”16 
In 1986, then-Minister for Labour Mr Lee Yock Suan noted that an increased 
reliance on MDWs would inadvertently lead to a change in society’s character. 
“Our children now don’t help out (with) the housework, they give orders to the 
maid,” he said.17
Since the introduction of the levy, the Government has tweaked rates to 
moderate the growth of the MDW population in Singapore, especially amid 
surges in demand. In 1992, for instance, the levy was raised from S$250 to S$300 
a month.18 This came on the back of increases in 1990, when the rate was raised 
by S$50 over two stages. “Some (MDWs) are prepared to work for as little as 
$100 to $150 a month,” noted an MOL press release in 1990.19 “Without the 
maid’s levy, childcare centres, local maids and other forms of domestic help 
will be unable to compete. Our society will become increasingly dependent on 
foreign maids.” The levy system was an important tool to curb this, one that 
also retained some flexibility for households. As Dr Lee Boon Yang, who was 
Minister for Labour in 1997, put it in Parliament, the levy “(left) it to women 
to decide on working or staying at home after balancing their income with the 
total cost of employing a Foreign Domestic Worker”.20
While the levy system helped manage the influx of MDWs, it was just one aspect 
of a complex issue. As the MDW population grew, so did concerns about their 
welfare and working conditions.Ensuring Safe Working Conditions
One area of concern that MOM had to pay close attention to in the early days 
was the safety of the growing population of MDWs within Singapore. By 1997, 
MDWs were employed in about 100,000 households island-wide.21 But the 
number of abuse cases, suicide cases, and fatal falls from a height while doing 
housework had also risen.
Several cases of MDWs falling from heights were accidents that had happened 
when they were tasked by their employers to clean window exteriors or while 
hanging clothing out to dry. In June 2012, MOM noted that the majority of 
MDWs who fell from heights over the last two and a half years were cleaning 
windows.22 It also noted that of the nine deaths that had occurred that year so 
far, five had occurred while the MDW was cleaning windows.
In June 2012, MOM banned the cleaning of upper-floor windows. The only 
exception was under two conditions: an employer or adult representative 
of the employer was physically present to supervise, and window grilles had 
been installed and locked during cleaning.23 In addition, MDWs and employers 
both had to sign a safety agreement outlining these conditions before window 
exteriors could be cleaned.24
Another area of concern was physical abuse. There were several factors that 
rendered MDWs particularly susceptible to gender-based violence and other 
types of abuse. “Domestic maids are female (and) work (and live) within the 
confines of their employers’ home for 24 hours of the day. Except during their 
time off, (they) are isolated from the rest of society nearly all the time, and 
depend on their employer for food and lodging,” noted then-Minister for Home 
Affairs Mr Wong Kan Seng in Parliament in April 1998.25 “Maids are therefore 
more vulnerable to abuse…than any other category of employees.”Chapter 12: Migrant Domestic Workforce248 249
Charting Our PathOne such case even led to a souring of bilateral ties between Singapore and 
Indonesia. In 1997, it came to light that Ms Hartati Ali Sodikun, a 15-year-old 
MDW from Indonesia, had been abused by her employers.26 They confessed 
to burning Ms Hartati with a hot iron, scalding her with boiling water, and 
punching her on the forehead, among other acts. In response, the Indonesian 
Government temporarily stopped sending MDWs to Singapore.
For deterrence, the Singapore Government began meting out harsher 
punishments to offenders. In 1998, the Government amended the Penal Code 
to increase maximum penalties for certain offences committed against MDWs, 
such as wrongful confinement and insult of modesty, by 1.5 times.27 Further 
upward adjustments were made in later years, and the number of abuse cases 
subsequently fell from 157 in 1997 to 41 in 2001.
Apart from stiffer penalties, MOM intensified public education efforts of both 
employers and MDWs, so that both parties would be aware of their rights and 
responsibilities under the law. In 2002, for example, it was announced that 
first-time employers of MDWs would have to undergo a mandatory orientation 
programme. This sent a strong signal that they would be held accountable for 
the well-being of MDWs in their employ.
Too Young to Work
Despite MOM’s efforts to make help more available to MDWs, not all chose to 
reach out for assistance when faced with challenging situations. Suicides were 
a persistent issue, with MDWs accounting for more than a third of some 231 
foreigners who committed suicide in Singapore between 2000 and 2004.28  
This meant that 12 out of every 100,000 MDWs died by their own hand, 
compared to about 10 out of every 100,000 Singaporeans.“MOM assessed that the reason, in many cases and especially for the  
Indonesians, was that they were very young,” said former MOM Permanent 
Secretary Ms Yong Ying-I in an interview for this book.29 “There were  
13-year-olds and 14-year-olds. Coming to an urbanised city was a very big  
shift for them…Without support, some may resort to suicide.”
To stem the problem, MOM tightened the eligibility criteria for MDWs. From 
January 2005, new MDWs coming to work in Singapore had to have at least 
eight years of formal education. They also had to be at least 23 years old, 
up from 18.30 This made it harder for younger prospective MDWs to falsify 
documents claiming they were of an eligible age. Still, verification challenges 
remained. “We went through debates internally to see whether there were 
medical tests that could be used to determine age,” said Ms Yong Ying-I.  
“We abandoned the idea because the tests were painful and expensive.” Instead, 
MOM opted to selectively interview MDWs after they arrived in Singapore to 
verify their application details.31 Although this initially caused an uproar among 
employment agents, they eventually started recruiting MDWs who looked older.
Making Help More Accessible
Over the years, efforts to strengthen employment standards for MDWs under the 
law as well as enhance the education and accreditation of employers, employees, 
and employment agencies (EAs) have helped to improve working conditions for 
MDWs. These efforts have been shored up in more recent years through further 
legislative moves that ensure that MDWs have adequate days off to rest, relax, 
and recharge. Such moves also help to facilitate their integration into a wider 
community outside the household.
In 2012, then-Minister of State for Manpower Mr Tan Chuan-Jin announced 
in Parliament that MOM would legislate a weekly rest day for MDWs.  Chapter 12: Migrant Domestic Workforce250 251
Charting Our PathChapter 12: Migrant Domestic Workforce
“A weekly rest day is regarded internationally as a basic labour right…(Singapore 
is) currently one of the very few foreign domestic worker (FDW) destination 
countries lacking in provisions for weekly rest days,” he said.32 “This has led 
to us becoming less attractive to FDWs compared to other destinations in the 
region that provide weekly rest days, such as Hong Kong and Taiwan.”
Yet, he noted that there was a need for flexibility. “The family circumstances of 
some FDW employers may make it genuinely difficult for them to cope without 
a FDW for one day every week…We also understand that some FDWs…prefer 
to work on their rest days for extra pay.” To take into account these different 
circumstances and preferences, the legislation would allow employers to 
provide compensation in lieu of a rest day for MDWs, although this would have 
to be agreed upon in writing by both sides.
While this was adequate for a number of years, a horrific case of abuse that 
was publicised in 2021 proved that more had to be done. That year, it came to 
light that Myanmar national Ms Piang Ngaih Don had died in 2016 at the age 
of 24 after enduring months of starvation and beatings from her employers.33 
Ms Gaiyathiri Murugayan and Madam Prema S. Naraynasamy were eventually 
found guilty of multiple charges of assault, and culpable homicide. Ms Gaiyathiri 
was subsequently sentenced to 30 years in jail – the longest ever for a case of 
MDW abuse – while her mother, Madam Prema, was sentenced to 17 years’ jail.
The incident underscored the importance of ensuring MDWs have a support 
ecosystem outside of the household, and are engaged in a wider community. 
This is what former MOM Permanent Secretary Mr Aubeck Kam referred to as 
the fundamental problem of visibility. “That’s the key challenge that MDWs 
face,” he said in an interview for this book.34 “MDWs are inside a household and 
are not reliably and predictably coming out into the community. Even if they 
need help, how does anyone know?”In 2021, the Ministry announced that it would be conducting house visits during 
which MDWs and employers would have an opportunity to bring up any issues 
they were facing to MOM.35 All first-time MDWs would also have to undergo  
in-person interviews conducted by the Centre for Domestic Employees (CDE) 
on MOM’s behalf, instead of being randomly selected for it.36 These measures 
would give them more opportunities to voice their concerns and seek assistance 
from the authorities. Subsequently, in 2023, MOM made it compulsory for 
MDWs to take one day off per month that could not be financially compensated.37 
This would contribute towards improving their visibility in the community and 
encourage the build-up of a support system they could turn to if they needed 
help. One employer interviewed by The Straits Times described it as a “win-win 
situation”, noting that helpers need “time and space to recharge”.38
Enhancing Support Measures
Beyond strengthening measures to protect MDWs’ well-being, MOM has also 
sought to “match” MDWs and employers. This included free dispute resolution 
services that became available from October 2019. Sessions are run by the CDE 
and the Foreign Domestic Worker Association, and are targeted at helping 
MDWs and employers navigate difficulties in their relationship.
“About 1 in 3 (MDWs) complete two years of their contract,” stated an MOM 
press release in October 2019.39 The typical length of an employment contract 
for MDWs is two years. “More can be done to support employers in the hiring 
of (MDWs), as early termination of contracts is costly and disruptive to both 
parties.” To that end, the Ministry also granted employers and EAs access to 
more detailed information about a prospective MDW, including their previous 
work experience. Such information would help both MDWs and employers find 
a better fit especially when services such as child-minding or care for elderly 
persons are required.252 253
Charting Our PathChapter 12: Migrant Domestic Workforce
At the same time, EAs were encouraged to take ownership of the matching 
process. All EAs are now required to provide an option for a refund of half of 
the service fee charged to employers in the event that the contract is terminated 
within the first six months. This came into effect from June 2022.40
These efforts paid off. An MOM survey of about 2,000 MDWs and employers, 
conducted in 2021, found that more than 99 per cent of MDWs were satisfied 
with living and working in Singapore, compared to 97 per cent in 2015.41 They 
reported high levels of satisfaction in areas such as accommodation, emotional 
support, and sufficiency of food provisions.
Other positive stories have also found their way into the limelight. For example, 
The Straits Times reported in 2024 that Sri Lankan national Ms Jayanthi Gamage, 
who worked as an MDW in Singapore, had earned a law degree from the 
University of London with the support of her employer.42 Such stories highlight 
the opportunities MDWs have in Singapore to upskill while working with the 
help of employers as well as non-profits and government agencies.43
Increasingly, households are turning not just to MDWs for domestic services, 
but to part-time workers who complete household chores and other services 
on an ad-hoc basis.44 To support this change in household preferences, the 
Government piloted the Household Services Scheme (HSS) in 2017, which 
allowed companies to hire migrant workers who could then perform specific 
tasks such as home cleaning, grocery shopping, car-washing, and pet-sitting 
without living in an employers’ household. The scheme was made permanent 
in 2021. Demand was strong, with about 140 HSS companies serving more than 
21,000 homes as of 2023.45
As the local population continues to age, more households are likely to 
require caregiving services. Yet, this needs to be balanced with the natural infrastructure constraints of a land-scarce island like Singapore, which cannot 
accommodate an unlimited number of MDWs. While MDWs will continue to 
play an important role in the care economy and in enabling more Singaporeans, 
particularly women, to participate in a shrinking workforce, Singapore must 
also explore other innovative options, such as the HSS, to support household 
needs for domestic chores. This is MOM’s challenge as Singapore and the region 
enter a new era of development.254 255
Charting Our PathOn January 23, 2020, Singapore confirmed its first case of a mysterious 
illness that had first reared its head in China.1 It was spreading across 
the globe at an alarming speed.
The 66-year-old infected traveller from Wuhan was swiftly isolated. 
Those he had come into contact with were tracked down and 
quarantined, while the rooms he stayed in were sanitised and sealed 
off. Singapore was doing everything it could to prevent the virus from 
becoming widespread. But the battle was becoming increasingly 
challenging.
By early February, the nation recorded its first cases of local 
coronavirus transmission when four women tested positive for the 
virus despite not having travelled to Wuhan.2 From there, the disease 
– named “COVID-19” on February 11, 2020 by the World Health 
Organization (WHO)3 – began to spread in earnest, both in Singapore Spotlight chapters highlight key topics that span multiple eras, and how 
MOM took unique approaches to address them.
This spotlight focuses on the COVID-19 pandemic that struck Singapore 
in 2020 and examines the extraordinary measures taken in response to 
protect lives and livelihoods, including those of migrant workers.and around the world. On March 11, 2020, WHO declared COVID-19 a 
global pandemic, confirming a frightening reality that would impact 
nearly every aspect of society. Drastic steps had to be taken by the 
Government. This included imposing a partial lockdown dubbed 
the “Circuit Breaker” from April 7 to June 1, 2020, which shuttered 
schools and non-essential workplaces. By mid-April, all migrant 
worker dormitories, where the virus was rapidly gaining ground, were 
declared isolation areas.
Such moves were necessary to preserve public health and safety. Yet, 
their reverberations on the economy and livelihoods were enormous. 
Amid border closures, manpower disruptions, supply chain woes, and 
a sharp drop in tourism, Singapore slipped into its worst recession 
since independence, recording a full-year contraction of its GDP 
of 3.9 per cent.4 The battle raged on in the healthcare sphere as the 
Government sought to rein in control of the highly contagious virus, 
which posed a severe threat to high-risk individuals.
For MOM, this crisis was unprecedented in its magnitude. “Singapore 
was fighting the COVID-19 war on all fronts, including healthcare, 
economic, and social,” said former Minister for Manpower Mrs 
Josephine Teo, who led the Ministry through the first year of the 
pandemic, in an interview for this book.5 “All these big problems 
came alive at the same time, and MOM, tasked with safeguarding 
the interests of the broad swathe of Singapore workers, was at the 
intersection of them all.”
Even as the Ministry set about tackling the immediate fallout of the 
pandemic, it also had to look ahead. Building resilience in the medium COVID-19
PandemicTheSpotlight 6: The COVID-19 Pandemic256 257
Charting Our PathSpotlight 6: The COVID-19 Pandemic
and long term was therefore a critical focus. “Every worker segment 
must have a fair chance to emerge stronger. Businesses must have 
fair support to succeed,” said Mrs Josephine Teo in Parliament in 
2021.6 This meant strengthening fairness and support for all workers, 
including migrant workers, for whom bridging housing, healthcare, 
and social well-being gaps would be essential going forward.
Early Days: Shockwaves
One major event in the early days of the pandemic that sent shockwaves 
through Singapore was the Malaysian Movement Control Order 
(MCO), which kicked in on March 18, 2020. Movement into and out 
of Malaysia was prohibited, affecting the large number of Malaysians 
who commuted to Singapore daily for work or study.7
“The Malaysian MCO had huge implications for Singapore, because 
so many essential services depended on workers who were coming in 
and out of Malaysia on a day-to-day basis,” said Mrs Josephine Teo, 
adding that there would be a “domino effect” in other industries if 
essential services stalled.8
MOM’s objective at the time was to minimise any adverse impact on 
the delivery of essential services such as healthcare, logistics, and 
other critical infrastructure.9 These would be necessary to tide the 
country through the Circuit Breaker, which consisted of a series of 
measures aimed at containing the spread of the virus. Preparations 
began immediately to help employers find accommodation for their 
Malaysian workers. This was not an easy task, given that as many as 
100,000 of them lacked living arrangements in Singapore, including about 1,000 nurses and other healthcare workers.10 On March 19, one 
day after the MCO kicked in, MOM announced temporary housing 
support for employers who were facing difficulty housing their 
Malaysian workers.11 Eligible employers could apply for a relief grant to 
defray their costs and tide over the initial shock. The Ministry worked 
with hotels and dormitory providers to roll out reduced rental fees 
for Malaysian workers, with other Government agencies, including 
the Housing and Development Board, and community groups lending 
their support.12 In line with its objective to keep critical infrastructure 
running, MOM prioritised assistance for sectors such as healthcare, 
security, cleaning, and waste management. Most affected Malaysians 
were subsequently able to settle into suitable accommodation  
in Singapore.
Another challenge at the time was the risk that financially struggling 
businesses would not be able to support their migrant workers. With 
international flights largely suspended, workers faced being stranded 
in Singapore without adequate support. MOM’s response was swift. 
It established a Taskforce that partnered with multiple Government 
agencies, non-governmental organisations, trade associations and 
private entities to provide support for migrant workers in the areas 
of housing, food and salary claim assistance. The Taskforce also 
facilitated job-matching for displaced migrant workers to find new 
employers in Singapore and worked with embassies and airlines 
to coordinate repatriation and relief flights that enabled workers to 
return home despite limited commercial flights.
Meanwhile, efforts to stem the transmission of the virus within 
Singapore’s borders had led to the shutdown of schools and most 258 259
Charting Our PathSpotlight 6: The COVID-19 Pandemic
workplaces. Overnight, non-essential businesses had to pivot online. 
Consumer-facing sectors such as retail and food and beverage 
took a big hit, registering their worst performance since 1986.13 
Economic activity was dampened, with annual real GDP estimated  
to have contracted by 2.2 per cent in 2020 as a result of Circuit  
Breaker measures.14
The impact of the pandemic on Singapore’s labour market proved to 
be significant, with the number of retrenchments more than doubling 
from 2019 to hit 26,110 in 2020.15 The Government responded 
quickly, rolling out four budgets in as many months, amounting to  
S$93 billion to support households and businesses.16 The NWC, 
comprising tripartite representatives from MOM, NTUC, and SNEF, 
published a set of wage guidelines on March 30, 2020 that urged 
employers to consider retrenchment only as a last resort, and to upskill 
employees where possible.17 The guidelines encouraged workers to 
support cost-cutting measures in order to preserve jobs. The NWC, 
which usually convenes annually, met an unprecedented four times in 
two years across 2020 and 2021 to release guidelines that would help 
businesses adapt to the changing COVID-19 situation.18
MOM sought to help businesses adapt to work-from-home and 
staggered hours arrangements implemented during the Circuit 
Breaker. On April 20, 2020, the Enhanced Work-Life Grant (WLG) 
was launched, with millions of dollars in funds disbursed to help 
businesses offset the cost of transitioning to different modes of 
work.19 The Enhanced WLG saw strong demand, with the Government 
receiving more than 2,700 applications within the first month of its 
introduction, amounting to more than S$50 million to be distributed to companies. The Enhanced WLG expanded on its predecessor, 
offering employers increased funding support to implement flexible 
work arrangements – a model which would become more entrenched 
post-pandemic.
At the same time, MOM had to ensure that workers whose jobs required 
them to be onsite remained safe. In March 2020, MOM commenced 
inspections to ensure companies put in place safe management 
measures to reduce the risk of local transmission of the virus at 
workplaces. During the Circuit Breaker from April to June 2020, when 
only essential firms with necessary approvals were allowed to operate 
in their physical premises, MOM conducted enforcement checks 
to detect non-essential firms operating without proper approvals 
and ensured that essential firms which remained operational had 
implemented safe management measures. After the Circuit Breaker, 
the focus shifted to ensuring that businesses were able to resume 
operations in a safe and sustainable manner. MOM also investigated 
potential lapses in workplaces with COVID-19 clusters and took errant 
employers to task. These efforts provided reassurance to workers that 
their well-being was being looked after while they focused on doing 
their jobs, and provided guidance to employers on how to safely 
operate to keep the economy running.
Even as MOM grappled with the economic situation, another challenge 
was quickly unfolding for migrant workers, whose numbers stood at 
about 600,000 in 2020.20 Of these, over 320,000 lived in dormitories, 
which would become the next battleground.21260 261
Charting Our PathSpotlight 6: The COVID-19 Pandemic
The Outbreak in Migrant Worker Dormitories
The first COVID-19 case in a migrant worker was detected on February 8, 
2020, only 16 days after the first imported case surfaced in Singapore.22 
Quarantine and contact tracing protocols were immediately initiated, 
surfacing four other workers who tested positive. All of them, including 
the originally affected worker, worked at a Seletar Aerospace Heights 
construction site.
Although MOM had taken the necessary steps to stem transmission, 
the nature of the virus was poorly understood at the time. New cases 
did not surface in migrant worker dormitories for approximately a 
month, with the first dormitory cluster identified only on March 30.
Following the identification of the first cluster, cases began to surge. 
Employers started sending their migrant workers to be tested for the 
virus in hospitals so that they could be cleared for work, leading to 
snaking queues outside Emergency Departments.23 This presented 
a risk: if hospitals were overwhelmed, it would paralyse the entire 
healthcare system. The Government subsequently issued an advisory 
to inform employers not to send workers to hospitals unless it was 
a medical emergency.24 It clarified that if a worker was unwell,  
employers should send them to a general practitioner (GP), who would 
make a proper assessment and decide on the next course of action.
But when the number of cases rapidly surged in two dormitories – S11 
Dormitory @ Punggol and Westlite Toh Guan – it became apparent 
that MOM could not manage the situation alone. By itself, MOM did 
not have the resources to manage the care of the 20,000 workers who were housed in these dormitories.25 To support MOM, the  
Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF), which had been set up in late January, 
quickly roped in other public agencies, forming the Inter-agency Task 
Force (ITF). The ITF was convened on April 6, 2020, and was overseen 
by the Singapore Armed Forces. It involved officers from the Ministry 
of Health, the Ministry of Communications and Information (now 
known as the Ministry of Digital Development and Information), the 
Home Team, MOM, and other agencies. It had a chain of command 
that reported through then-MOM Permanent Secretary Mr Aubeck 
Kam to then-Minister for Manpower Mrs Josephine Teo, and finally 
to the MTF.
The ITF had to work fast and at scale. Its first big task was to manage 
the two affected dormitories in Punggol and Toh Guan, which had 
been gazetted as isolation areas on April 5, 2020. By April 21, this 
was expanded to all 43 Purpose-Built Dormitories (PBDs) as well 
as Factory-Converted Dormitories and Construction Temporary 
Quarters.26 These dormitories, where as many as 12 to 16 workers 
shared a room, were potential hotspots for the virus.27 The ITF swiftly 
deployed Forward Assurance and Support Teams (FAST) to support 
dormitory operators. Medical facilities and triage clinics were quickly 
set up, along with services that were essential in other ways: free SIM 
cards and WiFi so that migrant workers could keep in touch with 
family and friends.28 But the density of the dormitories made it difficult 
to carry out proper isolation of sick workers. A critical decision was 
made to segregate older workers and those with underlying health 
conditions, which infectious disease expert Professor Dale Fisher later 
described as a “very novel” strategy that focused on preventing death 
rather than transmission, contributing to the low fatality rate.29262 263
Charting Our PathSpotlight 6: The COVID-19 Pandemic
Some 10,000 migrant workers in essential services were relocated 
from dormitories to alternative accommodations such as Housing 
Board flats, floating hotels, and military camps.30 This move helped 
minimise the impact of movement restrictions on essential sectors.
The isolation of dormitories was a drastic decision, but it had to be done. 
“We know that there are going to be some adjustments to be made by 
the companies, but we seek the cooperation of both the employers and 
workers on this new condition,” said Mrs Josephine Teo at a virtual press 
conference held at the time.31 “It is a necessary measure to minimise the 
risk of transmissions.” This was reiterated by Minister for Manpower 
Dr Tan See Leng in a speech in Parliament in March 2023.32 “If we 
had not (put dormitories under lockdown), the transmission among 
migrant workers across the dormitories and into the community would 
have been much more severe and much more widespread.” He added 
that this could eventually result in a situation similar to that of other 
countries: a high number of cases, an overwhelmed healthcare system, 
and consequently, a high death rate.
To help employers cope with the disruptions from the virus outbreak 
in the dormitories, the Government provided levy waivers and rebates 
totalling some S$1.3 billion by July 2020.33 MOM made it clear to 
employers that they had to continue paying migrant workers in their 
employ or allow them to work for a different employer. Compliance 
with this directive was made a condition of levy rebates.34 Employers 
thus used the Government support to meet their obligations to their 
migrant workers, which assured them of their livelihoods during the 
difficult period.There was also a long-term view. Bringing the situation in dormitories 
under control was essential for economic recovery. Once measures 
were eased, companies would have a ready pool of workers to tap on, 
accelerating business recovery and minimising long-term disruptions.
But how the situation was brought under control mattered too.  
Then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Hsien Loong had gone on national 
television to deliver a message of assurance. “We are paying close 
attention to the welfare of the foreign workers,” he said in his address 
to the nation on April 10, 2020.35 “If any of their family members 
watch my video, let me say this to them: We appreciate the work and 
contributions of your sons, fathers, husbands in Singapore. We feel 
responsible for their well-being. We will do our best to take care of 
their health, livelihood, and welfare here, and to let them go home, 
safe and sound, to you.”
Prior to the vaccine roll-out in 2021, migrant workers were 
systematically and regularly tested for the virus. This mass testing 
was conducted with a clear objective: not to contain the virus but 
clear it from the dormitories.36 On August 11, 2020, all dormitories 
were declared cleared of COVID-19, other than blocks designated as 
quarantine facilities.37
Local Recovery Measures
Once measures were in place to combat the immediate fallout of the 
pandemic, the Government turned its attention to other areas. As 
Deputy Prime Minister Mr Heng Swee Keat noted in Parliament in 264 265
Charting Our PathSpotlight 6: The COVID-19 Pandemic
April 2020, “saving lives (was the Government’s) topmost priority…
saving jobs (came) next”.38 Specifically, reducing job losses for locals 
was a key goal.
Steps towards this had already been taken as early as February 2020, 
when the Jobs Support Scheme (JSS) was rolled out as part of the 
Unity Budget.39 It was subsequently enhanced in later Budgets, once it 
was clear that the pandemic would be a protracted event – unlike the 
outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), which subsided 
within three months in 2003. The JSS provided wage subsidies to 
businesses to encourage them to retain local employees, with over  
S$7 billion paid out to employers just in the month of April.40 This 
helped to co-fund the wages of over 1.9 million local employees. 
Between March to December 2020, it is estimated that pay-outs from 
the JSS saved a total of 165,000 local jobs.41
Implementing the JSS helped to shield the local workforce from some 
of the winds that were buffeting labour markets worldwide.42 Yet, 
employers who were under the initial perception that JSS pay-outs 
had to be wholly dispensed as wage subsidies for employees found 
it hard to cope. Some felt that they needed the JSS funds to survive 
instead. MOM, NTUC, and SNEF adapted to their needs, putting out 
an advisory in June 2020 to inform employers that if necessary, they 
should discuss with unions and employees how JSS pay-outs should be 
used to cover business costs as well as provide some measure of salary 
support to employees.43 It was an example of how the Government, 
unions and businesses worked together to be responsive to needs, in 
order to achieve the best outcome.At the same time, self-employed persons, including hawkers and 
private hire and delivery workers, were included in the support 
measures. Working closely with NTUC, MOM announced that  
self-employed persons with fewer financial resources would be 
able to tap the Self-Employed Person Income Relief Scheme (SIRS). 
Under SIRS, eligible self-employed persons would receive three cash  
pay-outs of S$3,000 each in May, July and October 2020.44 The scheme 
provided a total of S$1.8 billion in support to close to 200,000 self-
employed persons.45
Lower-wage workers, many of whom continued to serve in essential 
functions throughout the pandemic, received Workfare pay-outs of up 
to S$4,000 annually, on top of additional cash support.
Apart from aiding job retention, the Government sought to support 
jobseekers. MOM, for example, published Job Situation Reports that 
provided jobseekers with timely information on job and traineeship 
openings, skills-in-demand and relevant employment support 
programmes.46 Between August 2020 and November 2021, a total 
of 28 editions were published. The frequency of the updates was 
an unprecedented move for MOM, and were a valuable resource for 
jobseekers and businesses planning their manpower needs.47
Another key initiative rolled out was the SGUnited Jobs and Skills 
Package, which placed jobseekers in short-term roles related to 
COVID-19 operations, as well as in longer-term jobs in the public and 
private sectors.48 Between April 2020 and April 2022, some 200,000 
jobs were filled through the various programmes under the Package. 266 267
Charting Our PathSpotlight 6: The COVID-19 Pandemic
The national effort featured close collaboration between MOM and 
partners across Government agencies, community and industry 
groups, technology providers and recruitment agencies to step up 
job-matching efforts, including for young Singaporeans to address 
concerns about a “lost generation”, referring to the potentially  
long-lasting impact of COVID-19 on young adults.49
By 2021, local recovery measures had borne fruit. Singapore’s resident 
employment rate had risen above pre-pandemic levels, driven both by 
demand for temporary manpower for COVID-19-related roles as well 
as permanent jobs.50 The economy was on the path to recovery.
Vaccinations at the Workplace
In early 2021, Singapore began taking its first tentative steps towards 
living with the virus. A key strategy was vaccinating the population. 
The first shipment of vaccines arrived in Singapore in December 2020, 
with the vaccination drive proceeding in earnest by early 2021 – albeit 
with some disruptions due to the emergence of new COVID-19 strains, 
such as the Delta variant. Over the course of that year, segments of 
the population were progressively vaccinated, with priority given to 
healthcare and other frontline workers, as well as those vulnerable to 
severe disease and complications if they fell ill with COVID-19.51
As more people were vaccinated against COVID-19, the Government 
introduced vaccine-differentiated safe management measures in 
various locations, including workplaces. In December 2021, amid an 
outbreak of Omicron – the latest strain of the virus – it was announced that new Workforce Vaccination Measures would apply. From January 
15, 2022, unvaccinated workers would not be allowed to return 
to workplaces even if they tested negative for COVID-19 24 hours 
before.52 At the time the announcement was made, 91 per cent of the 
eligible population had already been fully vaccinated.53
Naturally, vaccine-differentiated measures at the workplace were 
a sensitive issue that had to be carefully navigated by the tripartite 
partners. It was one that had been on the table for some time. “Both 
employers and unions are mindful that vaccination is voluntary,” said 
Mrs Josephine Teo in a written answer to Parliament on April 8, 2021.54 
“At the same time, workforces with a higher rate of vaccination are 
likely to be more resilient against outbreaks, which can help ensure the 
survival of businesses. This is ultimately also in the workers’ interest.”
Across 2021, tripartite advisories on COVID-19 vaccination at the 
workplace were released to help employers and workers navigate what 
could sometimes be an emotionally charged zone. For example, an 
advisory updated on October 23, 2021 advised employers that special
consideration should be given to employees who were ineligible for 
vaccination.55 These employees must be allowed to work from home 
where possible, and their absence from the workplace should not 
affect their performance assessments. An updated advisory released 
on December 27, 2021 provided further advice to employers who were 
managing unvaccinated workers who were required to work on site. 
The advisory noted that the termination of employment with notice 
should only be a last resort for this group of employees.56268 269
Charting Our PathSpotlight 6: The COVID-19 Pandemic
While new variants undoubtedly posed obstacles to the resumption 
of economic and social activity, the availability of vaccines was a 
strong silver lining. “The increase in the number of COVID-19 cases 
in the community is a reminder that we are still in the midst of the 
pandemic and the economy has not fully reopened yet,” said Dr Robert 
Yap, then-President of SNEF, on May 14, 2021. “However, due to the 
vaccination programme and strong tripartite cooperation, SNEF is 
cautiously optimistic of (Singapore’s) economic prospects in 2021.”57
Shoring Up Migrant Workers’ Mental Health
Recognising the mental health risks posed by the situation, a 
new taskforce was formed in November 2020 to enhance mental 
health care support for migrant workers. Named Project DAWN 
(Depression, Awareness, Well-being, Normalisation), the taskforce 
comprised Government psychologists, representatives from MOM,  
the Institute of Mental Health, the Migrant Workers’ Centre, and 
HealthServe, a registered charity dedicated to supporting migrant 
workers.58 The taskforce took a collaborative and comprehensive 
approach to strengthening the mental health resilience of migrant 
workers. For example, it trained FAST officers to perform psychological 
first aid, while ensuring migrant workers had access to mental health 
resources. Similarly, HealthServe piloted a new 24-hour crisis helpline 
from August 2021 and led the training of selected migrant workers 
to play the role of Peer Support Leaders who could then support the 
community from the inside.59
This was complemented by efforts from non-governmental  
organisations (NGOs). Project Migrantwell, for instance, began in  2020, and was a combined initiative by the estates of Khoo Teck Puat and 
Ng Teng Fong, as well as the Singapore Business Federation Foundation 
and St. Andrew’s Mission Hospital.60 Recognising the important role 
migrant workers played in Singapore’s economy, Project Migrantwell 
provided medical services, including psychological care services, to 
migrant workers, with contributions by its founding donors totalling  
S$20 million.
The arrival of the vaccine was another step back to normalcy for 
migrant workers, as it was for the local community. As then-Second 
Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng noted in Parliament in 2021, 
migrant workers would be vaccinated according to the same timeline 
as the rest of the nation, with workers in higher-risk dormitories to be 
vaccinated first.61 By November that year, over 98 per cent of migrant 
workers living in dormitories were fully vaccinated.62 Up till then, 
only 3,000 migrant workers had been allowed to visit the community 
each week, and they were restricted to certain areas such as Little 
India or Geylang Serai. Daily visits to recreation centres (RCs) had 
been capped at four hours. But high vaccination rates in the migrant 
worker community allowed this scheme to be expanded, with up to 
3,000 fully vaccinated workers allowed to visit the community each 
day from December 3, 2020, with no restrictions on location. Visits to 
RCs were also extended to eight hours.
The gradual relaxation of movement restrictions on migrant workers, 
combined with initiatives to support their mental health, helped 
to address the psychological impact of the pandemic on migrant 
workers and shore up their mental resilience during the crisis. MOM 
subsequently collaborated with non-governmental partners such 270 271
Charting Our PathSpotlight 6: The COVID-19 Pandemic
as Passion To Serve, 24asia, the Singapore Institute of Technology, 
HealthServe, and Big At Heart to organise mental health roadshows, 
games, and even yoga sessions once restrictions had relaxed.63
Building Long-Term Resilience for Migrant Workers
Now that the worst of the crisis was over, it was time to double down 
on the transformation roadmap for the migrant worker community. 
In doing so, MOM considered three key areas, the first of which was 
housing resilience. As COVID-19 had made clear, living conditions in 
the dormitories had made migrant workers particularly susceptible to 
the spread of the virus. In 2022, MOM proceeded to make amendments 
to the Foreign Employee Dormitories Act, first introduced in 2015, 
to ensure that improved living standards were applied to more 
dormitories (see Chapter 11).
The second area was in healthcare resilience. The pandemic had 
highlighted healthcare gaps in the migrant worker community, 
with Dr Tan See Leng noting in 2021 that migrant workers often 
avoided seeking medical attention until their conditions had 
deteriorated significantly.64 “We hope that every migrant worker 
can be registered with a designated medical centre or GP clinic near 
where they live and work to foster better continuum of care and better  
doctor-patient relationships,” he added. “In this way, we will  
shift beyond episodic care to better manage chronic health conditions, 
including mental health.”
In other words, it was a preventive healthcare approach. “The moment 
COVID-19 became endemic, we divided the entire migrant worker dormitory ecosystem into different clusters,” said Dr Tan See Leng in an 
interview for this book.65 “We ensured that there would be consistency 
in terms of medical coverage for employers who had migrant workers 
living in dormitories.”
This was done through the Primary Care Plan (PCP) introduced 
by MOM that would help employers cover their workers’ basic 
primary healthcare costs.66 From April 1, 2022, it became mandatory 
for employers to purchase PCPs for migrant workers who lived 
in dormitories with seven or more beds or who worked in the 
construction, marine shipyard, and process sectors. Healthcare 
services were offered by four healthcare providers in six zones across 
Singapore, with migrant workers making a co-payment of S$2 and 
S$5 per telehealth and in-person session respectively.67 These medical 
centres were staffed by personnel who could speak in migrant workers’ 
native languages and provide translations of healthcare materials and 
medical and treatment plans in these languages.
One important consideration was cost. Who was going to shoulder 
the increased burden of healthcare costs? From MOM’s perspective, 
the financial responsibility lay with employers. To offer employers 
clarity of cost and protection against unexpected healthcare bills, 
MOM adopted a capitation funding model, where employers only pay 
an annual PCP rate of S$108 to S$138 per worker as of 2025 – excluding 
minimal co-payments by workers to promote ownership over their 
own health.68 Such a model provided cost clarity to employers and 
kept medical expenses affordable for workers, ensuring a win-win 
outcome for both parties. It is one of the first schemes of its kind in 
the world that aims to bring medical costs down for migrant workers.272 273
Charting Our PathSpotlight 6: The COVID-19 Pandemic
The scheme offered advantages for both migrant workers and 
employers. “By pooling the services that are required, you can ensure 
a higher and more consistent level of care, rather than relying on 
individual contractual agreements,” said Dr Tan See Leng.69 “The cost 
is also spread out across different industries, so you enjoy economies 
of scale. There’s affordability and predictability in terms of costing for 
employers.” This would help contain not just large-scale pandemics, 
but smaller outbreaks of minor illnesses like conjunctivitis or varicella 
(chickenpox). It would also help to minimise work disruptions and 
build a healthy and productive migrant workforce.
The third and final area was in social well-being and recreational needs. 
Throughout the pandemic, MOM worked with NGOs and migrant 
workers themselves to ensure that workers had adequate recreational 
facilities where they could relax after work and during their rest days. 
RCs are a crucial part of this effort, serving as nexus points for workers 
to gather and partake in communal activities, such as retail bazaars, 
sports, and cooking competitions. From 2024, external partners were 
appointed to take over the running of some RCs to ensure activities 
remain diverse and engaging for migrant workers.
Lessons Learnt
There were several takeaways from the COVID-19 experience. On 
the employment front, the pandemic underscored the need for more 
accessible job-matching services for jobseekers, said Dr Tan See Leng 
in a speech in Parliament in 2023.70 Diverse employment channels, 
such as the SGUnited Mid-Career Pathways Programme, proved 
crucial in helping mature jobseekers find prompt employment. But most importantly, he emphasised, “COVID-19 has also demonstrated 
that we should and must continue to build on tripartite trust 
and partnerships as a key competitive advantage for Singapore.”  
Indeed, strong tripartite cooperation played a key role in guiding 
businesses and workers through the pandemic. The tripartite partners 
formulated some 20 advisories during the three years of COVID-19 – 
a stark contrast to the one to two advisories published during SARS 
and H1N1. “Our mindset was that we needed to look at the issues at 
hand objectively and to solve them without sinking the boat. We took 
a problem-solving approach and were not driven by emotions and 
ground politics,” said Mr Then Yee Thoong, Divisional Director of the 
Labour Relations and Workplaces Division at the time.71 The spirit of 
cooperation extended beyond the tripartite partners, with individuals, 
businesses, trade associations, and civil society groups all putting 
their hearts and minds to the whole-of-nation response to the crisis.
Another lesson was the importance of building up capacities and 
capabilities in peacetime that could then be quickly activated in 
times of crises. This is already being done through infrastructure like 
migrant worker medical centres, which are “pandemic-ready”. They 
come equipped with segregated waiting areas and treatment rooms 
that aim to minimise the transmission of contagious diseases.72 New 
MOM divisions such as the Assurance, Care and Engagement (ACE) 
Group, also play an important role as a receptacle of trust and “soft 
capital” (see Chapter 11), especially since MOM’s ground presence in 
dormitories was not strong before the pandemic. ACE Group would be 
critical in communicating with workers, educating them on important 
matters, and coordinating essential logistics in future pandemics, said 274Charting Our Path
former MOM Permanent Secretary (Development) Mr Chia Der Jiun in 
an interview for this book.73
The Government’s response to COVID-19 was not perfect. At times, 
it drew criticism from the public, especially for decisions regarding 
the movement restrictions of migrant workers. Yet this criticism was 
illuminating in itself. “Actually, it means that there is more support, 
that Singaporeans are prepared to do more for migrant workers,” said 
Mr Aubeck Kam in an interview for this book.74 “I think COVID-19 
allowed for a certain reflection, not just in MOM but in Singapore at 
large. Singaporeans had an opportunity to look afresh, and based on 
the sentiments there was a window to make improvements.”
Era 7
Pro-Growth, Pro-Worker, 
Pro-Singapore277By 2022, the worst of the COVID-19 pandemic was over. But as Singapore 
and the global economy emerged from the crisis, competition for skilled 
workers in growth sectors would heat up once again.
Singapore has long been regarded as a global talent hub, and at the time ranked 
second in INSEAD’s 2022 Global Talent Competitiveness Index.1 However, 
as other economies – such as the United Kingdom, Dubai, and Hong Kong – 
stepped up their efforts to woo top international talent through special visas 
and other schemes, Singapore had to remain ahead of the curve.2 “We must stay 
open and connected to the world,” stressed then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Hsien 
Loong at the National Day Rally in August 2022. While globalisation was on 
the wane, and countries turned inwards and grew more protectionist, the only 
way Singapore could survive was for it to remain a global city, he said. “When it 
comes to top talent, we can never have enough,” he added. “We need to focus on 
attracting and retaining top talent, in the same way we focus on attracting and 
retaining investments.”3Chapter 13: Developing a Complementary Foreign Workforce
Chapter 13
Developing a Complementary  
Foreign Workforce278 279
Charting Our PathSingapore’s strong track record in handling the pandemic had bolstered its 
reputation for quality and efficiency, and the country must seize the opportunity 
to secure its place in the post-COVID world, noted Mr Lee Hsien Loong. 
“Businesses want to invest in places where the talent is, business follows the 
talent, and they also look for places where the politics and policies are stable, 
and where the system works…We already have schemes to attract and retain top 
talent, especially in the technology industry. But we need to do more, especially 
in the sectors with good potential. We want to make top talent everywhere sit 
up, pay attention, and think seriously about coming to Singapore.” 
Singapore as a Global Hub for Talent
To attract global talent to Singapore, the Government unveiled a number of 
new initiatives in 2022.4 A new Overseas Networks & Expertise (ONE) Pass, 
for example, would allow rainmakers to start, operate, and work for several 
companies in Singapore concurrently. The pass would be valid for five years – 
more than twice as long as a regular Employment Pass (EP) – and also facilitate 
the spouse of its holder to seek employment in Singapore.5 People earning 
a fixed monthly salary of at least S$30,000, comparable to the top 5 per cent 
of EP holders; or who had outstanding achievements in arts and culture, 
sports, science and technology, or research and academia, could apply from  
January 2023.
All this would make working in Singapore more attractive to global talent – and, 
by extension, attract businesses to Singapore and create more job opportunities 
for locals. Furthermore, global talent would help sharpen Singaporeans’ 
competitive edge and fill gaps in specialist areas. “We need global talent to 
supplement and complement what we don’t have, to come in and show us how 
to get it done, teach our people, and even introduce us to their networks,” said 
Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng in an interview for this book. “You need a constant cross-fertilisation of ideas…and a transfer of expertise to our local 
workforce.” Singaporeans must stay hungry and learn from the best, he added. 
“We must avoid inertia and complacency. We have to keep moving. And to keep 
moving, we need to find out what the world is doing and prepare our workforce 
for it.”6
Being a global talent hub goes beyond attracting the best to come work in 
Singapore. It is equally about developing Singaporeans to become global leaders. 
A dynamic economy, the presence of many leading multinational companies, 
and the expansion of local businesses into the region and beyond – all these 
provided fertile soil to bring out the best in Singaporeans. But, as with global 
talent, this could not be taken for granted. The Government has been investing 
heavily in leadership development programmes such as the Singapore Leaders 
Network (SGLN) and SGLN Fellowship by EDB, the Singapore Global Executive 
Programme by Enterprise Singapore, and the SG Digital Leadership Accelerator 
by IMDA. With the intensifying need for capable corporate leaders to enable 
Singapore’s businesses to maintain their global competitiveness, more needed 
to be done to strengthen the pipeline of potential local corporate leaders.
The 2023 Forward Singapore report highlighted that developing and nurturing 
Singaporean global leaders is one of the Government’s top priorities in the 
years ahead. Effective leaders in global organisations require deep knowledge 
of global markets and the ability to work across borders and cultures. Therefore, 
the Government expanded its suite of programmes to support businesses to send 
locals overseas. In 2024, EDB launched the Global Business Leaders Programme 
targeting middle to senior managers, while Workforce Singapore launched the 
Overseas Markets Immersion Programme (OMIP) targeting employees with little 
to no overseas exposure. Both programmes provided funding to businesses to 
offer developmental opportunities for their Singaporean employees, including 
overseas work assignments for in-market training and exposure.Chapter 13: Developing a Complementary Foreign Workforce280 281
Charting Our PathEnsuring the Complementarity of EP Holders and S Pass Holders
Singapore’s economy depends not only on global talent, but also a highly-skilled 
workforce at every level. The EP allows businesses to hire foreign Professionals, 
Managers, Executives and Technicians (PMETs), while the S Pass caters for 
Associate Professionals and Technicians (APTs). The defining objective of the 
work pass framework is complementarity with the local workforce. The goal 
was to build the most competitive workforce that could grow the economic pie 
and create better opportunities for Singaporeans.
The EP framework ensures that foreign PMETs are of high calibre compared 
to local PMETs. The framework needed to adapt as the local workforce grew 
in quality and the needs of Singapore’s economy shifted. To this end, MOM 
introduced a number of adjustments to the EP framework.7
The minimum qualifying salary for EP applicants was pegged to the top  
one-third of local PMET wages in 2022, to set a high quality bar. It was raised 
that year from S$4,500 to S$5,000 (and from S$5,000 to S$5,500 for those 
employed in the financial services sector). Unlike the earlier round of tightening 
in 2020, the aim this time was to ensure that the qualifying salary kept pace 
with local wage growth.8 While salaries were a useful indicator of the value of 
the EP holder, it was a blunt instrument on its own. Thus, in 2023, a points-
based system, the Complementarity Assessment Framework (COMPASS), was 
introduced to holistically evaluate candidates. In addition to meeting the EP 
qualifying salary, EP applicants had to score at least 40 points on COMPASS 
based on several criteria:9
• The candidate’s salary relative to local PMET wages in their respective sectors.
• The candidate’s qualifications.
• The firm’s nationality diversity and whether the candidate improves it.
• The firm’s support for local employment compared to its industry peers.In addition, candidates could score bonus points if their roles were in short 
supply in Singapore, such as AI engineers, cybersecurity architects, and carbon 
traders;10 or if the businesses hiring them were involved in ambitious innovation, 
investment, or internationalisation activities in line with the country’s strategic 
economic priorities. Companies were evaluated relative to their industry peers 
rather than a one-size-fits-all benchmark. “It doesn’t disadvantage sectors, 
such as IT, that are more reliant on EP holders because we don’t have enough 
local supply,” remarked former MOM Permanent Secretary Mr Aubeck Kam in 
an interview for this book.11
The aim of the new framework was to make the evaluation process more 
transparent, while encouraging businesses to improve their workforce profile. 
“For employers, they will find that the system is responsive to the industry’s 
needs, and easier to navigate with a transparent, predictable, and clear 
framework. It also recognises their efforts to build up a strong local pipeline 
and to maintain a diverse foreign workforce,” said Dr Tan See Leng. “For 
our local workforce, they will have greater confidence that EP holders here 
are of a high calibre, and will better complement their teams. And that their 
employers will also make efforts to develop their local pipeline and maintain 
workforce diversity seriously. And lastly….COMPASS will allow us to remain 
open to complementary talent in short supply here so we can grow our frontier 
industries to bring us into the next stage of growth.”12
Similarly, MOM made moves to increase the quality of S Pass holders. In 2022, 
MOM announced it would raise the minimum qualifying salary for new S Pass 
applicants.13 The minimum qualifying salary, added to the S Pass levy, would be 
raised gradually to bring the total cost of hiring an S Pass holder to at least the 
wages of the top one-third of local APTs.
To give companies time to adapt, the new changes would kick in in three 
phases: September 2022, September 2023, and September 2025. The first phase Chapter 13: Developing a Complementary Foreign Workforce282 283
Charting Our Pathbumped up the S Pass minimum qualifying salary from S$2,500 to S$3,000, 
with a higher minimum threshold of S$3,500 for the financial services sector. 
The changes came on the back of previously announced reductions in the S Pass 
quotas for the manufacturing sector, which had fallen from 20 per cent of a 
business’s total workforce in 2021 to 18 per cent in 2022, and were set to decline 
further to 15 per cent in 2023.14 Some businesses had relied on the S Pass to hire 
non-PMETs from sources that were not allowed under the Work Permit. As the 
S Pass was targeted at APTs, MOM introduced the Non-Traditional Sources 
Occupation List to allow these businesses to right-site some of these non-PMET 
S Pass holders to Work Permits instead.
While some businesses welcomed the efforts to attract global talent and 
improve the speed and predictability of EP applications, others expressed 
concerns about the higher salary thresholds for the EP and S Pass. They said 
that the move would drive up business costs, worsen hiring woes, and impede 
plans for expansion. There were fears, too, that some companies might resort to 
offshoring certain roles to save money – which would in turn stunt the growth 
of local talent.15
“The manpower-tight situation is such that many companies are not operating 
at where they need to be. When they want to think about expansion, it is very 
difficult, and some of them have to scale down their operations,” said former 
SNEF Executive Director Mr Sim Gim Guan in an interview for this book, noting 
a “significant” cost impact for companies due to increases to the work pass 
salary thresholds.16
These challenges were not trivial. With the improving educational profile 
and increasing aspirations of Singaporeans, wage depression from low-cost 
competition was another risk that needed to be managed.17 Without good 
employment outcomes for locals, public acceptance for skilled immigration would be eroded and, with it, Singapore’s economic competitiveness down  
the road.
Work Permit Holders
Given Singapore’s infrastructural and societal constraints, it was simply 
not tenable to absorb large numbers of foreign workers. To support  
productivity-driven growth, Singapore’s work pass framework would have to 
raise the quality of foreign workers, and allocate them to more productive areas. 
“The proportion of the foreign workforce is already sizeable today and it cannot 
increase much more. Hence if we are to increase the proportion of EPs, we would 
have to adjust the proportion of Work Permit holders (WPH) accordingly. We 
would have to find ways to efficiently allocate these WPH numbers to the right 
firms and sectors,” said MOM Permanent Secretary Mr Ng Chee Khern.18
Adjustments to the Work Permit framework were also unveiled in 2022 to 
encourage businesses to reduce reliance on lower-skilled foreign workers and 
move up the value chain so that higher wages are undergirded by higher labour 
productivity. To spur greater productivity in the construction and process 
sectors, their Dependency Ratio Ceiling would be lowered from 1 local employee 
to 7 foreign employees (1:7) to 1:5, while the Man-Year Entitlement framework 
would be replaced with a levy framework to encourage businesses to adopt 
more efficient construction methods and technology, such as pre-fabrication, 
and hire more higher-skilled Work Permit holders.19
In 2024, MOM also increased the Local Qualifying Salary – the minimum sum a 
local needs to be paid to qualify as “1 local worker” in quota calculations – from 
S$1,400 to S$1,600 a month for full-timers, and from S$9 to S$10.50 an hour 
for part-timers.20 This was to keep pace with wage growth, and ensure locals 
in non-PMET jobs were not employed on token salaries for companies to meet 
quotas and access foreign workers.21Chapter 13: Developing a Complementary Foreign Workforce284 285
Charting Our PathThis shift to a leaner Work Permit workforce is necessary, but the transition 
will not be easy for everyone, noted MOM Deputy Secretary (Workforce)  
Mr Kenny Tan.22 He noted that businesses that are over-reliant on cheap 
foreign labour will need to innovate and find new, leaner ways of operating. 
Consumers who have long enjoyed labour-intensive services at low prices due 
to the availability of cheap foreign labour will have to adjust their preferences 
and expenditure. Work Permit policies are thus tightened gradually, with 
ample forward notice, and together with other measures to support businesses 
to transform and to help lower-income families manage higher costs of living.  
At the same time, the Work Permit framework will continue to provide 
flexibilities for manpower-intensive essential services, such as healthcare 
and environmental services, to ensure the availability and resilience of  
these services.
Beyond the flexibilities for companies in essential services, the Government 
also stepped up its efforts to support strategic firms that commit to developing 
Singapore’s local workforce. Under a new Manpower for Strategic Economic 
Priorities (M-SEP) Scheme launched in December 2022, companies could, for a 
limited period, recruit S Pass and Work Permit holders beyond the Dependency 
Ratio Ceiling – while committing to developing Singapore’s local workforce.23 
The scheme was targeted at “needle-moving enterprises”, said Dr Tan See Leng 
at the launch. He added that this would “translate into a lot more opportunities 
for our local Singaporeans to move up the career path and at the same time, 
allow firms to get the type of technical expertise and talent needed”.24
Benefitting Singaporeans
As of June 2024, Singapore had more than 1.25 million foreign workers  
(excluding migrant domestic workers), including 202,400 EP holders 
and 176,400 S Pass holders. Both had been on an upward trend since the 
COVID-19 dip, with EP numbers surpassing pre-pandemic levels.25 The foreign workforce makes up about one-third of the total workforce (excluding migrant  
domestic workers).26
The balanced approach has helped locals to secure good jobs. The number of 
resident PMETs grew by 380,000 between 2013 and 2023, while EP and S Pass 
holders grew by 50,000 during that same period. Resident income also grew by 
21.6 per cent in real terms during the 10-year period. Overall, Singapore’s labour 
market is at close to full employment. Singapore’s resident employment rate was 
66.2 per cent in 2023 – the fourth highest among advanced OECD economies. 
The resident unemployment rate and long-term unemployment rate that year 
were also very low, at 2.7 per cent and 0.7 per cent respectively.27
The need for foreign manpower is a pressing one. Without supplementing its 
resident workforce with foreign workers, Singapore would not be able to meet 
the demands of its growing economy. The resident fertility rate, after all, has 
been on a downward trend for decades, falling to a historic low of 0.97 in 2023 
– well below the replacement rate of 2.1.28 The number of residents supporting 
Singapore’s ageing population has also fallen, with the old-age support ratio 
dropping from 6.0 in 2014 to 3.5 in 2024, and projected to fall further to 2.7 in 
2030.29 When non-resident workers are included, however, the ratio increases 
to 5.2 per elderly resident in 2024, reflecting how foreign manpower can offer 
some relief.30
“We must not view residents and foreigners as a zero-sum game and continue 
to draw divides,” cautioned Dr Tan See Leng. “Thriving businesses with access 
to complementary foreign talent will not only lead to more job creation, but 
also improve overall wage outcomes, as businesses expand and improve their 
productivity,” he said. “By growing our economic pie, we will be better able to 
secure positive outcomes for Singapore and Singaporeans.”31Chapter 13: Developing a Complementary Foreign Workforce286 287
Charting Our PathForeign-owned businesses – which are drawn to Singapore in part because of 
its pool of global and local talent – have had a significant positive impact. As 
of the second quarter of 2024, such businesses made up around 20 per cent of 
businesses in the country and provided jobs for nearly one-third of its employed 
residents. They accounted for a disproportionate share of higher-paying jobs: 
60 per cent of residents with a gross monthly income of more than S$12,500 
were hired by foreign companies. They also create business for local small and 
medium enterprises, which in turn create many jobs for Singaporeans.32
At the aggregate level, the foreign workforce has benefitted Singapore and 
Singaporeans. However, locals’ anxieties and concerns arising from greater 
competition with foreign workers in the workplace cannot be ignored. While 
competition cannot be avoided if Singapore is to continue to earn its place in 
the world, the Government will enable Singaporeans to compete strongly on 
a fair and level playing field – through efforts such as the Fair Consideration 
Framework, Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices, the Tripartite 
Alliance for Fair and Progressive Employment Practices, and Workplace Fairness 
Legislation (see Chapter 15). At the end of the day, the objective of foreign 
workforce policy is to create more opportunities for Singaporeans.
“If Singaporeans do not see how bringing in highly-skilled foreign workers 
benefits them in their everyday lives, then the level of acceptance for 
staying open to the world will be low, and our policy space constrained,” said  
Mr Kenny Tan. “Most Singaporeans do understand why we need to attract more 
high-quality EP holders. Such individuals, together with their Singaporean 
counterparts, help our businesses to compete and succeed. In turn, that creates 
good jobs for locals and resources to raise our standards of living. But this also 
means greater competition at the individual level, and not everyone will come 
out on top. So we need to recognise that foreign workforce policy has a very 
real and visceral impact on local firms and workers. We have to recognise and address the concerns of Singaporeans, and equip them to compete strongly on 
a level playing field. Most of all, we must ensure that every Singaporean has 
the opportunity to share in the country’s economic success, and no one is left 
behind,” he added.
For Dr Tan See Leng, it is also a matter of trust: giving Singaporean workers 
the confidence that the Government has their back. “By constantly building 
competencies and capabilities, ensuring that meritocracy continues to be the 
bedrock of our workforce policies, and making sure that our locals have an 
equal – maybe more than equal – chance, that builds trust,” he remarked. “The 
moment that trust drops, we will become very insular, which we cannot afford 
to be.”33Chapter 13: Developing a Complementary Foreign Workforce288 289
Charting Our Pathof their own career health,” he added.
The maxim “prevention is better than cure” also applies to careers. “Instead of 
acting only when things go wrong, we should be constantly, actively developing 
our own career plans and pursue jobs and training opportunities in a focused 
and intentional manner. And we need to constantly review, adapt, and tweak our 
career plans based on changes in the labour market and how our life priorities, 
at different stages of our life, evolve,” said Dr Tan See Leng.1
Career health has three aspects. “First, being aware of opportunities in the 
labour market and how to seize them,” noted Dr Tan See Leng in a Parliamentary 
reply. “Second, taking proactive and purposeful actions towards one’s career 
goals and keeping up one’s employment resilience. Third, being able to bounce 
back from setbacks. Better career health is key to helping our workers move up 
the career ladder, stay employable, or switch to a new job that better matches 
their skills and interests.”2
While career health appears to be focused on individuals, its significance goes 
well beyond that. “Underlying it is this critical need to maximise the human 
potential of our entire workforce, an increasingly acute need as our workforce 
ages,” added MOM Deputy Secretary (Workforce) Mr Kenny Tan. “As our 
economy transforms, career health helps our businesses to succeed and workers 
to seize new opportunities. This ultimately strengthens the social compact – 
everyone has the opportunity to have meaningful careers and good jobs, and no 
one will be left behind.”3
The Need for Greater Labour Mobility
MOM’s focus on career health came on the back of a national effort to refresh 
the Government’s Industry Transformation Maps (ITMs) from 2021.4 The ITM 
refresh placed several key issues on the agenda.5 Firstly, more jobs were at risk of Exercise regularly, eat a healthy diet, and go for regular check-ups. Minister 
for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng, who dispensed such advice when he was a 
practising doctor, sees it as a fitting analogy today for how people should plan 
their working lives. As employment cycles shorten and industry transformation 
accelerates, workers need to adopt good habits for lifelong employability or 
“career health”: go for regular “career health checks” to learn how to seize 
opportunities in the labour market; develop a plan to upskill and reskill 
themselves, whether through training or by taking on roles that stretch their 
abilities; and bounce back stronger if they lose their jobs.
“With the average half-life of skills now at five years, and going as low as two 
and a half years in some tech fields, the concept of lifelong employability and 
lifelong learning is at the forefront more so than ever,” said Dr Tan See Leng at 
a careers event in March 2024, where he pointed to the rapid changes in skills 
needed for jobs, and disruptions in the labour market by technologies such as 
AI. “Just as we spend a lot of time talking to people about physical health, how 
you should try to exercise more, eat healthily, have regular medical check-ups…
We are now modelling and nudging, encouraging all Singaporeans to take care Chapter 14
Empowering Workers Through  
Career HealthChapter 14: Empowering Workers Through Career Health290 291
Charting Our Pathdisruption. With business cycles becoming shorter and more volatile, workers 
would likely either have to change jobs or even switch industries at some point 
in their lives. The need to continually update one’s skills to keep pace with the 
rapidly changing economic landscape is greater than ever. According to a 2023 
report by the World Economic Forum, an estimated 44 per cent of workers’ skills 
would be disrupted in the next five years.6 Secondly, in resource-constrained 
Singapore, economic transformation requires freeing up resources, including 
labour, from less productive areas and channelling these resources to more 
productive, growth areas. Notwithstanding significant investments in skills 
training and efforts (see Chapter 8), not enough Singaporeans were moving into 
higher productivity sectors and new growth areas, such as sustainability and 
information and communications technology.
This is in part due to an information gap, said Mr Kenny Tan. “We often hear 
that people do not know what to train in. Underlying that is an uncertainty of 
what career options are available and realistic in a fast-changing economy,” 
he added. “Faced with such uncertainty, most will stick to what is known and 
what is safe. When jobseekers apply for jobs on the MyCareersFuture job portal, 
we observe that they typically apply very narrowly, for roughly the same kind 
of job they are currently in, or within the same sector. Making bigger career 
switches is risky, as is taking a lot of time off to go for training when you do not 
know whether there is a good job at the end of it. Tackling this information gap, 
empowering every Singaporean to identify new opportunities, and supporting 
them to make longer-term career plans to achieve their career aspirations – this 
is what career health is about.”
A “paradigm shift” was therefore necessary, said MOM Permanent Secretary 
Mr Ng Chee Khern. “We need to move beyond helping the vulnerable groups 
which delivers the social objective of inclusive growth. We also need to help 
the broad middle to harness their human capital and potential and achieve greater economic growth.”7 Using a medical analogy in an interview for this 
book, he added: “You must always help the chronically ill, the patients in the 
acute hospital. You also need to work upstream with the Singaporeans who are 
still healthy to prevent them from becoming unhealthy. Prevention is better  
than cure.”8
Introduction of Career Health SG
The idea of career health gained traction during the Government’s Forward 
Singapore conversations in 2023.9 It has since developed into Career Health 
SG, a national movement initiated by MOM, WSG, and SSG. At its core, Career 
Health SG is about maximising human potential. For Singaporeans, it is a means 
to achieving fulfilling careers; for employers, it serves to widen their access  
to talent.
Career Health SG builds on the extensive investment in the SkillsFuture 
continuing education and training system in four main ways: a national 
movement to foster a career health mindset among workers and employers; 
reducing information barriers in the labour market through sharing of verified, 
reliable jobs and skills data; leveraging technology to put data-driven insights 
and innovative solutions into the hands of workers and employers; and growing 
an ecosystem of public and private partners to cater to the diverse needs of 
different individuals and businesses.
The focus on career health comes as WSG takes on a more strategic role in 
supporting employees and jobseekers. In April 2024, WSG handed over two  
career centres and 10 jobs and skills centres to NTUC’s Employment and 
Employability Institute (e2i). With this transition, WSG would primarily channel 
its resources into driving new nationwide initiatives to help Singaporeans stay 
employable.10 This move would allow WSG to “move upstream” to drive jobs Chapter 14: Empowering Workers Through Career Health292 293
Charting Our Pathtransformation and reskilling efforts in Singapore, said Mr Ng Chee Khern.11
This marked a departure from WSG’s role in earlier periods, which focused on 
building institutional capability to facilitate job placements for workers affected 
by career disruptions. The focus on job matching then was “very downstream”, 
noted former MOM Permanent Secretary Mr Aubeck Kam. “Job matching only 
dealt with people who needed urgent help – a bit like the A&E department,”  
he said.
With more economic volatility ahead, workers will need to be ready with a 
contingency plan that goes beyond job-hopping. Mr Aubeck Kam added: “Then 
we thought, how do we engage with people one step earlier? So the idea of career 
health came in – we looked at the wealth of data that we had, and wondered, 
could the data help you be more ‘predictive’ in terms of helping people navigate 
job searches? Does it need to only come in when you want to search for a job, 
or can WSG be useful to you even earlier, to help you do a ‘diagnostic’ of your 
current skill set and readiness for the job market?”12
Empowering Workers to Take Charge of their Career Health
One of the ways MOM is rethinking its role in helping workers stay employable 
is by ensuring that they have access to the right resources. Over the years, 
WSG’s MyCareersFuture has expanded its offerings to workers, producing 
content on employment trends and providing targeted tools to help them assess  
their careers and plan their next steps. It now does this in increasingly 
personalised ways.
In July 2023, it introduced CareersFinder, a service that uses Government data 
and AI to personalise recommendations for suitable jobs based on skills and 
experience, and training opportunities based on career goals. A year later, more than 35,000 people had used the platform. “The feedback on CareersFinder 
has been positive,” said Dr Tan See Leng in September 2024. “Based on 
surveys and engagement sessions, users appreciate the data-driven insights on 
jobs and training opportunities. Users also go on to explore a wider range of 
opportunities. On average, jobseekers applied to 50 per cent more occupations 
after they used CareersFinder.”13
This approach is crucial as individuals who broaden their job search expose 
themselves to a wider range of opportunities that leverage their existing skills 
while opening up new job pathways. CareersFinder caters to diverse groups: 
people who are seeking new career opportunities but are unsure where to start; 
people aiming to branch into adjacent roles and identify required skills; and 
people looking to re-enter the workforce.14
Beyond improving career and skills assessments, workers receive support 
in charting their career plans. For those preferring in-person guidance, for 
example, Polaris offers a career guidance programme. Piloted in November 
2023, it provides one-to-one coaching sessions with certified career coaches. 
These coaches, akin to personal trainers in gyms, assist in mapping longer-term 
career plans and identifying new roles in emerging sectors. Following early 
success, the pilot programme was expanded.
Career Health SG further supports workers in executing their career plans. In 
2024, MOE, MOM, SSG, and WSG launched the Careers & Skills Passport. This 
tool consolidates verified jobs, training, and skills records, enabling workers to 
curate and share information with job portals and employers, while receiving 
feedback and additional recommendations. Chapter 14: Empowering Workers Through Career Health294 295
Charting Our PathSupporting Employers to Widen Access to Talent
Both employees and companies have a part to play in this push towards career 
health. Companies have to take employees’ career health seriously. In fact, it 
is in their interest to do so, Dr Tan See Leng stressed. “In tight labour markets 
especially, employers who support the career health of their workers will be 
better able to retain and attract workers,” he said. “Your workforce becomes 
even more agile, and highly skilled businesses can also be very nimble and agile 
in terms of responding to significant disruptions.”15
MOM has supported this mindset shift in Singapore’s approach to talent 
management and workforce development. In January 2024, MOM and SNEF 
invited NTUC, TACs, business leaders, and industry representatives to form 
the Alliance for Action (AfA) on Widening Access to Talent. This collaborative 
effort by the Government and industry aimed to develop industry-led solutions 
to increase talent competitiveness amid rising manpower constraints due to an 
ageing resident workforce.
Led by industry leaders, the AfA comprised over 20 business and human 
resources representatives. By October 2024, the AfA had formulated eight 
recommendations designed to help employers improve their talent attraction, 
development and retention strategies, ultimately boosting productivity and 
supporting business growth.16
Central to this initiative is the promotion of skills-first hiring practices, a global 
trend that is reshaping recruitment practices. This approach encourages hiring 
managers to move beyond traditional mindsets and prioritise candidates’ actual 
skills and capabilities over conventional markers like paper qualifications or 
past job titles. As workers continually upskill and reskill over the course of their 
increasingly productive lifespans, this shift becomes increasingly crucial.There are resources to support employers to adopt skills-first hiring and 
workforce development practices. Jobs-skills resources such as SSG’s 
Skills Framework help employers identify critical and emerging skills in  
industry-specific growth jobs, as well as invest in training and development 
programmes to enhance their employees’ skills and support their career 
progression.17 Likewise, digital tools such as the Careers & Skills Passport – 
which interfaces with individual workers – give employers access to trusted 
and verified information from government sources relating to a candidate’s 
jobs, training and skills records. The Government seeks to partner players in 
the labour market ecosystem – including online employment marketplaces that 
facilitate job matching – to draw on such verified data to help employers recruit 
based on skills more efficiently and confidently.18
Despite these supportive resources, implementing workforce development 
practices poses challenges, particularly to SMEs. Some are concerned that 
investing in employees’ skills and career development might leave them 
vulnerable to poaching from competitors. To address these concerns, MOM and 
tripartite partners have introduced sector-specific career guidance workshops, 
equipping middle managers and HR staff with knowledge and tools to support 
their employees in charting career development pathways.19
Dr Tan See Leng underscored the importance of offering career development 
opportunities: “Even if you do not offer your employees opportunities, 
other companies will offer them, and your employees may eventually end up 
seeking opportunities with these other companies. So, it is good that all of us, 
collectively, go onto this bandwagon and move it together. It will be in your 
interest to support every employee in building up their career health.”20 And as 
SNEF President Mr Tan Hee Teck candidly pointed out in an interview for this 
book: “If someone can hire from you, you can also hire from someone. It works 
both ways.”21 He added that this is not easy due to Singapore’s small labour pool. 
The labour pool needs to grow, he noted, citing his own experience of offering Chapter 14: Empowering Workers Through Career Health296 297
Charting Our Pathflexible work to attract seniors back to the workforce.
To help employers manage the cost and risk of reskilling workers for new roles 
who may not adjust well to the demands of the new jobs, MOM announced 
enhanced support for Career Conversion Programmes (CCPs) in 2024.22 These 
programmes, which cover about 30 sectors, assist both mid-career jobseekers 
and existing employees in reskilling for growth roles. The enhancements include 
increasing the CCP salary support cap for workers from S$6,000 to S$7,500 
per month. Additionally, the CCPs were expanded to support employers who 
proactively reskill their existing workforce for new growth roles identified in 
the ITMs and Jobs Transformation Maps.
The CCPs are complemented by other support initiatives such as the SkillsFuture 
Career Transition Programme, which supports mid-career workers looking 
to pivot to new roles; the SkillsFuture Level-Up Programme, which helps  
mid-career workers refresh skills and stay relevant; and NTUC’s Company 
Training Committees, which work closely with employers to implement  
training plans and keep up with industry transformation.23
Another crucial group are HR professionals who work with employers to 
drive these efforts. MOM, together with SNEF and NTUC, set up the Institute 
for Human Resource Professionals (IHRP) in 2017 to enhance the skills and 
standards of HR professionals, particularly by implementing a national HR 
certification known as IHRP certification. Building on these foundations, the AfA 
in 2024 recommended a stronger industry push for IHRP certification to help 
HR professionals level up, with strategic capabilities to develop their workforce 
based on critical and emerging skills. In doing so, they would draw on IHRP’s 
HR networks and resources, as well as insights on latest industry practices and 
manpower requirements.24These initiatives reinforce the shift towards skills-first hiring and workforce 
development practices. There are indications of progress. According to MOM’s 
Job Vacancies 2023 report, the proportion of available jobs for which academic 
qualifications are not the main deciding factor in hiring has slightly increased 
– from 73.6 per cent in 2022 to 74.9 per cent in 2023. Employers, the report 
suggests, seem increasingly willing to consider job applicants’ skill sets and 
relevant experience alongside traditional qualifications.25 Alongside such 
encouraging shifts, a sizeable 76.5 per cent of private sector employers provided 
structured training to their employees in 2022, recovering from the low of 57.1 
per cent in 2021 during the COVID-19 pandemic.26
Staying healthy is all about making good choices – from seeing the doctor 
regularly to monitor your health, to exercising regularly and eating right. 
Likewise, staying healthy in one’s career is about making small changes that 
matter over the long run so that when the next setback arrives, there is enough 
in the tank to bounce back and, hopefully, do even better.Chapter 14: Empowering Workers Through Career Health298 299
Charting Our Pathand employer CPF (contributions).” He added that this group would “find it 
harder to afford housing, healthcare, and eventually, retirement”.
For MOM, shaping fair and progressive workplaces to “ensure they keep up with 
socio-economic development and technological advances” was a key focus in 
the medium-term, Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng said during MOM’s 
annual Workplan Seminar in 2024.3 Two critical pieces of legislation would 
come into play: First, the Workplace Fairness Legislation (WFL), Singapore’s 
first workplace anti-discrimination law, and second, the Platform Workers Act, 
which came into effect on January 1, 2025. 
These efforts heralded a new era of progressive workplaces – but it was an era 
that was decades in the making.
From Manpower 21 to TAFEP
Workplace fairness had been on MOM’s radar as early as 1999, when it released 
its landmark report titled Manpower 21: Vision of Talent Capital. This national 
action plan highlighted the need for progressive workplace practices that 
kept pace with the demands of the new economy.4 As technology advanced 
and manpower needs evolved, companies were encouraged to implement 
progressive workplace practices, such as strong HR infrastructure and flexible 
work arrangements. This included part-time work and work-from-home, long 
before the latter was popularised by the pandemic.
The ground reality was more challenging. For instance, the number of  
job-discrimination related complaints reported to MOM between 1996 and 
1999 more than tripled to 32, with age and racial discrimination topping the 
list.5 More had to be done to change mindsets and cultivate fair employment 
attitudes, which was why the Tripartite Guidelines on Non-Discriminatory The need to entrench fair and progressive workplace practices is an urgent 
one for MOM. Not only had the COVID-19 pandemic taken an economic 
toll on Professionals, Managers, Executives and Technicians (PMETs), a group 
that was making up an increasingly large proportion of the workforce, the rise 
of the platform economy was also popularising new modes of work that lacked 
protections under the law. 
In August 2021, then-Prime Minister Mr Lee Hsien Loong announced during 
his National Day Rally speech: “We will enshrine the TAFEP guidelines in law.”1   
This referred to the guidelines set out by the Tripartite Alliance for Fair 
Employment Practices (TAFEP), Singapore’s anti-discrimination watchdog. He 
added that such a move would give the guidelines “more teeth” and expand the 
range of actions that the Government can take against workplace discrimination.2 
In that same speech, Mr Lee Hsien Loong also noted that he was “especially 
concerned” about delivery workers, who have “no employment contracts with 
the online platforms (and therefore) lack the basic job protection that most 
employees enjoy, like workplace injury compensation, union representation, Chapter 15
Fair and Progressive WorkplacesChapter 15: Fair and Progressive Workplaces300 301
Charting Our PathJob Advertisements were rolled out in 1999.6 These guidelines encouraged 
employers to use objective criteria when recruiting jobseekers, such as  
specifying the physical demands of the job rather than a preferred age. While 
they were legally non-binding, they provided employers with a useful reference 
as to what constituted “objective criteria” in recruiting job seekers.
In 2006, the tripartite partners set up TAFEP, which would play a critical 
role in educating employers and employees alike about the standards of fair, 
responsible, and progressive employment practices that were expected in 
Singapore. Speaking in 2007 at the launch of the Tripartite Centre for Fair 
Employment, then-Minister for Manpower Dr Ng Eng Hen said: “The challenge 
is to shape mindsets and behaviour so that fair employment becomes an integral 
part of corporate culture and practices, even an inherent trait…We can capitalise 
on our close tripartite partnership to help us tackle this complex issue. This was 
the genesis for TAFEP.”7
A year after its formation, TAFEP released the Tripartite Guidelines on Fair 
Employment Practices (TGFEP). This set of guidelines identified fair and 
progressive HR practices in areas of employment and pre-employment, 
including job applications, interviews, grievance handling, and more.8 Still, 
as then-Minister of State for Manpower Mr Gan Kim Yong acknowledged in 
Parliament in 2007, “While guidelines serve as important reference points, real 
and sustained changes in employment practices will come about only when 
there is commitment by employers.”9
New Anxieties
By 2010, TAFEP had made good progress. The proportion of discriminatory job 
advertisements in the print media had fallen sharply from 19.7 per cent in 2006 
to just 1 per cent in 2009, while the number of complaints lodged by workers on matters of workplace discrimination held steady at an average of 70 complaints 
a year.10 Some 1,200 companies had also signed TAFEP’s fair employment pledge 
by 2010,11 up from just over 300 in 2007.12
But several concerns lingered. Although the TAFEP framework adopted a “moral 
suasion” approach that aimed to promote and support employers in adopting 
progressive employment practices, it lacked legislative muscle.13
A new anxiety was also emerging. More Singaporeans were becoming worried 
that they were losing out to foreigners, amid the inflow of foreign PMETs into 
the country. While foreigners played a critical role in fuelling business growth, 
which translated into better jobs and higher wages for Singaporeans, frictions 
were also emerging as competition for PMET roles heated up. In 2012, TAFEP 
reported that when it came to employment matters, Singaporeans were most 
worried about being discriminated against in favour of foreign labour – the first 
time such a concern had topped the list.14
These anxieties were acknowledged by then-Acting Minister for Manpower 
Mr Tan Chuan-Jin in 2013, who suggested that discrimination against local 
jobseekers was not just a matter of perception but that it “does happen”.15 
He added that the Government was not ruling out legislation, but remained 
committed to “moral suasion” and the use of guidelines.
“Anti-discrimination legislation is one possible way to address these issues and 
we do not reject the idea entirely,” he said, adding: “Let us give (moral suasion) 
a fair stab and see how we can evolve over time.”
In 2014, MOM sent a clear signal that discrimination against local jobseekers 
would not be tolerated by launching the Fair Consideration Framework (FCF). 
The FCF set out job advertisement requirements to ensure that employers Chapter 15: Fair and Progressive Workplaces302 303
Charting Our Pathconsidered locals fairly before they could hire a foreign PMET,16 and was 
enhanced in 2016 with the introduction of the FCF Watchlist.17 The Watchlist 
identified firms that demonstrated signs of discriminatory hiring practices, 
such as having a disproportionately high percentage of foreign PMETs 
compared to similar companies in the same industry. Such firms would have 
their Employment Pass applications closely scrutinised, and those who were 
recalcitrant or uncooperative would have their work pass privileges curtailed.
At the same time, MOM shored up legislative protections for specific segments 
of the workforce. In 2012, the Retirement and Re-employment Act was 
passed, establishing the retirement and re-employment age at 62 and 65 
respectively along with related mechanisms to guard against unfair dismissal  
(see Spotlight 2). This deterred employers from terminating the employment 
of senior workers on the basis of age, and ensured that they would have a fair 
opportunity to remain employable.
In 2013, paternity leave was legislated via the Child Development Co-savings 
Act, granting fathers one week of Government-paid paternity leave.18 This was 
an important step towards changing workplace attitudes towards fathers who 
took time off from work to care for their families, and would also help women 
balance work and life responsibilities by easing some of the caregiving pressure 
on them. The legal provision for paternity leave was further enhanced in 2017 
and 2025.
Move to Legislate
Given that the Government had, for years, relied on a “softer” approach to 
combating workplace discrimination, what triggered the shift to legislation? 
The issue went back to the concerns of a growing proportion of PMETs in the 
workforce. When the pandemic struck in 2020 and Singapore slipped into its  worst year-long recession since independence,19 PMETs – especially mature 
PMETs between 40 and 60 years old – were identified as a particularly vulnerable 
group. According to MOM’s Labour Force Report, one in five PMETs reported 
being retrenched by June 2020.20 But resident retrenchments for PMETs between 
40 and 59 years old, in particular, stood at 57.2 per cent in 2020, compared to 36 
per cent for those below 39 years old.21
At the same time, the pandemic necessitated the mass adoption of digital 
technologies as part of everyday working life. As businesses became more 
technology-oriented, senior workers faced greater difficulty in securing 
employment. This issue was exacerbated by age biases, with senior workers 
generally seen as less tech-savvy compared to younger “digitally native” talent.22
The fears and anxieties of local PMETs were acute enough for NTUC to take 
note. As NTUC Secretary-General Mr Ng Chee Meng noted in an interview for 
this book, they wanted “a fair shot at a good job…I thought it was significant 
enough as a national level issue to put across”.23
In October 2020, NTUC and SNEF joined hands to survey the lay of the land 
for PMETs. The NTUC-SNEF PME Taskforce, as it was called, concentrated 
its efforts on PMEs in Singapore who existed within a traditional  
employer-employee relationship. In formulating its report, the Taskforce 
consulted over 10,000 members of the public, as well as union leaders and 
industry leaders over the next year.24 Its report found that the top concerns for 
local PMETs were a lack of job security, a need for greater support in employment 
and training opportunities, as well as a desire to be more evenly matched 
against foreign talent in the job market. Of the nine recommendations proposed, 
three were dedicated to enhancing workplace fairness, including measures to 
strengthen enforcement action against errant companies.Chapter 15: Fair and Progressive Workplaces304 305
Charting Our PathFrom MOM’s perspective, legislating workplace fairness at that point – not just 
for PMETs, but for the broader workforce – seemed like “a logical and important 
step”, in the words of former MOM Permanent Secretary (Development)  
Mr Chia Der Jiun.25 Speaking in an interview for this book, he explained 
that society was ready for legislation since businesses now had experience 
implementing the TGFEP – and employees also knew they could turn to TAFEP 
for assistance. 
“Was the system fundamentally broken and ineffective? Not really, it wasn’t 
broken. It wasn’t in great need of repair, but could it be improved and 
strengthened? Yes,” he said. “With legislation, employers are clearer about their 
responsibilities, and employees are also clearer about their rights…We don’t just 
rely on the cooperation of the majority. Now there are concrete enforcement 
levers that the Government can use against the minority who may require that 
enforcement.” He added: “Altogether, it shows that our society – employers, the 
unions, workers, and Government – is ready to take a clearer stand that there is 
no place for discrimination in our workplace.”
In July 2021, the Tripartite Committee on Workplace Fairness was convened. 
The Committee’s final report was released in 2023, and spelled out 22 
recommendations that covered all stages of employment, from pre-employment 
to in-employment to dismissal.26 To avoid a scenario where workplaces  
became overly litigious, the report stated clearly that the recommendations 
“formalise mediation as the preferred approach to resolving disputes relating 
to workplace discrimination”.
Over the course of the Committee’s deliberations, it considered the state of 
workplace fairness legislation internationally. The United Kingdom’s Equality 
Act, for instance, was taken as a positive example of adopting an incremental 
approach.27 Passed in 2010, the Equality Act combined more than 116 pieces of legislation that had been implemented to better protect workers of different races, 
women, persons with disabilities, and more.28 In its final report, the Committee 
observed that “Employment practices (in the UK were) positively shaped by the 
legislation. Workers are attracted to join organisations that operate fairly and 
where all workers are treated with respect.” Yet, it also noted that “It is clear 
that there is no one-size-fits-all approach across different countries…While we 
can learn from the experience of others, we must be mindful of the applicability 
of their framework to our local context.”
In its overseas ventures, the Committee “learned what to do, but also learnt 
what not to do,” said Dr Tan See Leng in an interview for this book.29 “What we 
wanted to avoid was very long, acrimonious, litigious public spats fought out 
in the courts.”30 He added that that was why the tripartite partners proceeded 
slowly, with “clear, sure-footed steps” that reassured the vast majority of fair 
employers, while sending a strong signal to the egregious minority that unfair 
practices would not be tolerated.
Over the course of the extensive consultation process, the Committee achieved 
broad consensus on the WFL. Yet, there were sticking points when it came down 
to the details. One issue was that NTUC wanted to “name and shame” errant 
companies, in Mr Ng Chee Meng’s words. “NTUC explained that our approach to 
(naming and shaming) is not going to be a fire hose. What we wanted to do was 
to have that deterrent,” said Mr Ng Chee Meng.31 “The logic is that if we do this, 
many companies out there will think twice, thrice…If we truly believe that the 
vast majority of our employers are good employers, then naming and shaming 
will be sparingly used.” After intense discussions on the matter, SNEF and MOM 
accepted NTUC’s argument. It was agreed that naming employers involved 
in particularly severe cases of workplace discrimination could be done on a  
case-by-case basis.Chapter 15: Fair and Progressive Workplaces306 307
Charting Our PathThe WFL saw Singapore join several jurisdictions with anti-discrimination laws 
such as the UK, the United States, Japan, and the European Union. It would tackle 
discriminatory practices across all employment stages, such as hiring, training, 
appraisals and dismissals, setting out corrective action for employers who base 
employment decisions on five groups of characteristics that are protected by 
law. These are: age; nationality; sex, marital status, pregnancy and caregiving 
responsibilities; race, religion and language ability; and disability and mental 
health conditions. Speaking during the Second Reading of the Bill, Dr Tan See 
Leng said the WFL was designed “to improve protections against workplace 
discrimination, while preserving our fair and harmonious workplace norms”.32
He added: “Internationally, this approach of having a law to cover certain 
protected characteristics and a more flexible tool (the TGFEP) to cover all other 
characteristics is quite unique. It enables any employee who faces discrimination 
to seek support, and is only made possible because of good tripartite relations 
and strong institutions like TAFEP.”33
But while the protections have been enshrined in law, the fundamental basis of 
workplace relations has to be one built on trust – a culture that has been bred 
from the early days of tripartism. Said Dr Tan See Leng: “To conclude, while 
this Bill is not a silver bullet for upholding workplace fairness, it will enhance 
our current model of promoting fair and harmonious workplaces in a way that 
is tailored to our local context. It will encourage an atmosphere of trust and 
openness where issues on workplace discrimination can be raised safely and 
resolved amicably. In doing so, we aim to preserve, reinforce, and improve our 
existing workplace norms on fair and harmonious workplaces.”34
Protecting Platform Workers
Platform workers were another area of growing concern for MOM. While the 
platform industry provided more opportunities for people to earn a living, it also gave rise to a new group of workers that needed protections. Platform 
workers, a category which includes freelance delivery workers and ride-hailing 
drivers, were not considered “employees” under existing laws due to the nature 
of their work.
Consequently, they did not enjoy the same protections, even though they 
represented a growing proportion of the workforce in Singapore. Based on 
MOM data, platform workers made up some 3 per cent of the workforce in 2023, 
numbering about 70,500. In 2016, this figure stood at 56,000.35 These workers 
included taxi drivers, private-hire drivers, and delivery workers. Many entered 
the platform industry during the COVID-19 pandemic, with one survey revealing 
that some 60 per cent of food delivery riders entered the industry during  
the pandemic.36
To strengthen protections for platform workers, the Advisory Committee on 
Platform Workers (PWAC) was set up in September 2021. Its recommendations, 
released in November 2022, spanned three areas: the creation of a framework to 
define and protect platform workers’ rights; the provision of adequate financial 
protection in the event of a work-related injury; and improving the housing and 
retirement adequacy of platform workers.
 
Following the release of its recommendations in November 2022, the 
Government fully accepted the PWAC’s recommendations, with the Bill passed 
in Parliament in September 2024. Speaking in Parliament, Senior Minister of 
State for Manpower Dr Koh Poh Koon highlighted that one of the Bill’s key 
recommendations was the creation of a new “middle category” of workers, 
who existed between the definition of employees and self-employed.37 The 
designation of platform workers as a unique category would, he added, 
“preserve the flexibility of platform work that both sides want”, such as the 
freedom of workers to decide their hours and workload on the side of workers, 
and not legislating sick pay and vacation leave on the side of platform operators.Chapter 15: Fair and Progressive Workplaces308 309
Charting Our PathThe law also included measures to enhance the housing and retirement  
adequacy of platform workers by progressively increasing their CPF contribution 
rates to match those of employees and employers. The increased rates would be 
mandatory for younger platform workers born from 1995 onwards. Beyond these 
provisions, platform operators would also have to provide mandatory work 
injury compensation insurance with a level of coverage similar to employees. 
Meanwhile, the law introduced a new legal representation framework for 
platform workers, who would now have more bargaining power through being 
formally represented by platform work associations.
Dr Koh Poh Koon said the Platform Workers Bill was “a good example of how 
tripartite partners in Singapore have worked closely together to enhance labour 
standards in a sustainable manner”.38 These efforts positioned Singapore as a 
leader in formally recognising and protecting platform workers as a distinct 
category. Crucially, Singapore achieved this outcome through collaboration 
and without conflict.
A Marathon, Not a Sprint
Another area where MOM is continuing to change mindsets and attitudes on the 
ground is flexible work arrangements (FWAs). As then-Minister for Manpower 
Mrs Josephine Teo noted in Parliament in 2020: “The ‘new normal’ brought 
about by COVID-19 provides a great opportunity to review workplace practices 
and entrench more flexible work arrangements. This will serve public health 
objectives, and improve business continuity and work-life harmony.”39
In 2024, the tripartite partners released the Tripartite Guidelines on Flexible 
Work Arrangement Requests.40 The new guidelines, which kicked in by the end 
of that year, set out how employees should request for FWAs, as well as how 
employers should handle such requests. The guidelines built on groundwork that had been laid years before, namely the Tripartite Advisory on Flexible 
Work Arrangements, issued in 2014, and the Tripartite Standard on Flexible 
Work Arrangements, introduced in 2017. Speaking in Parliament in May 2024, 
Minister of State for Manpower Ms Gan Siow Huang made clear that FWAs 
should help, not hinder, businesses. “We should not mandate FWAs or set 
hard targets…It does not make sense to require businesses to offer FWAs even 
when it negatively impacts business and affects employment prospects for 
Singaporeans,” she said.41 She added that the purpose of the guidelines was to 
ensure that requests for FWAs were properly considered by employers, with the 
aim of establishing the right norms and attitudes in the workplace.
As attitudes evolve, so do national priorities. Mental health, in particular, is 
another focus for MOM. “Many adults spend substantial time at work and, 
sometimes, work can be stressful and affect one’s mental well-being,” said Ms 
Gan Siow Huang during a Parliamentary debate on mental health in February 
2024. “It is thus important that we look at how workplaces can support the 
mental well-being of employees and what each of us can do to create kinder, 
more inclusive workplaces.”42
While protections for workers with mental health conditions have already 
been woven into WFL, which lists “mental health conditions” as a protected 
characteristic, MOM is doing more to promote mental well-being support at 
the workplace. The Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) Council, for instance, 
launched the Well-being Champions Network in November 2023, which 
sees employees being empowered to take charge and advocate for mental 
wellness in the workplace.43 The network, which has about 275 members 
from 145 companies employing some 175,000 employees, is an example of a  
non-legislative move that aims to bolster workplace inclusivity from  
the ground up. Chapter 15: Fair and Progressive Workplaces310 311
Charting Our PathIn 2021, when remote work was the norm and employees’ mental health was 
less visible to employers, MOM also launched iWorkHealth – a free online 
assessment tool that companies could use to measure workplace stress and 
identify stressors.44 Not only would employees receive individual reports to 
help them understand and manage their work stress, company leaders would 
receive aggregated and anonymised data to encourage them to take action to 
support employees’ mental well-being. iWorkHealth, which was developed 
by MOM’s WSH Institute in collaboration with Changi General Hospital, the 
Health Promotion Board, the Institute of Mental Health, and the WSH Council, 
also features a “Lite Version” that allows companies to have a quick measure of 
the state of mental well-being in their workplace.
Taken holistically, these measures are emblematic of the consensus-building 
approach favoured by the tripartite partners. Rather than jumping straight 
to legislation, efforts to transform workplaces begin with changing attitudes 
through consistent engagement. In turn, this is informed by broader societal 
and workplace trends, such as the increasing prevalence of poor mental health 
among Singaporeans and the growing need for FWAs as more Singaporeans,45 
especially women, juggle caregiving and work in an ageing society.46 MOM’s 
role, then, is to anticipate workplace issues, and lay the groundwork for change 
early as it did before.
It is reflective of an understanding that real and lasting change takes time to 
gain the buy-in of organisations and workers, with legislation serving as a 
step towards promoting full compliance. In other words, fair and progressive 
workplaces are a marathon, not a sprint – and it takes perseverance and 
cooperation to cross the finish line.Over the past 70 years, MOM successfully found a balance between economic 
and social outcomes in its policies and programmes. MOM played the role 
of a custodian of the Singapore labour market. It helped businesses grow and 
transform, creating good jobs and healthy demand for workers. It also helped 
to develop and augment the workforce, ensuring a skilled and diverse supply of 
workers to enable businesses to thrive. With a view of supply and demand, MOM 
kept the labour market tight, without allowing it to overheat to the detriment of 
businesses, workers, and Singaporeans.
The title of this book speaks of drawing lessons from 70 years of workforce 
and workplace development to inform MOM’s future path. This learning is 
crucial as Singapore navigates a complex operating environment in 2025  
and beyond.
A Changing Landscape
Today’s pressing workforce challenges are driven by both external and  
internal forces.Chapter 16: Charting the Path Ahead
Chapter 16
Charting the Path Ahead312 313
Charting Our PathExternally, heightened geopolitical tensions, increased trade protectionism 
and divergent economic policies have resulted in a more volatile global 
economy. Global competition for talent continues to be hard-fought, 
with economies introducing new measures to attract the best talent. The 
rise of AI will create new opportunities and raise productivity, but is also 
likely to cause widespread disruption to jobs and skills.1 Emerging models 
of flexible and contingent work challenge traditional notions of job and  
income security.
Internally, Singapore’s rapidly ageing population presents serious challenges 
to the continued growth of the economy and retirement adequacy. Our total 
fertility rate currently stands at 0.97 and continues to decline.2 At this trajectory, 
by 2030, Singapore’s elderly support ratio would have further declined to under 
three residents per elderly person compared to 3.5 in 2024.3 The impact of a high 
proportion of older workers on the overall dynamism and orientation of the 
workforce is unknown. Unlike other global cities, most residents will retire in 
situ in Singapore. At the same time, greater politicisation of foreign manpower 
and immigration policies will limit the options to mitigate the downsides of an 
aged workforce.
Driven by improvements in workforce educational qualifications, growth in 
high-skilled resident labour has consistently exceeded that of lower-skilled 
resident labour. This is reflected in the rise in the proportion of Professionals, 
Managers, Executives & Technicians (PMETs) of the resident workforce from 
53.5 per cent in 2014 to 63.7 per cent in 2024.4 Improving the standard of living 
for the broad middle by securing jobs with good salaries that enable their real 
incomes to grow will require building on past foundations whilst ensuring they 
evolve and remain relevant.
Against this backdrop, Singapore will need to find fresh solutions. Prime 
Minister Mr Lawrence Wong, in his first National Day Rally speech in 2024, called for Singapore to strengthen its social compact, while keeping true to its 
fundamentals.5 “We will be prudent. To honour and respect the past. To uphold 
the fundamentals that have served us well, and remain relevant to us. But we 
must and we will be bold. We will not let the past constrain our ability to shape 
our future. We will look for fresh and better solutions, and choose the best way 
forward for our nation,” he said.
Lessons for the Future
Looking back on the evolution of manpower policies over the last 70 years,  
we can distil several lessons that remain relevant for today’s operating context.
First, the tripartite relationship remains key. Throughout the nation’s most 
challenging episodes, the tripartite partners worked together to fulfil their duty 
of care to Singapore and Singaporeans. During economic downturns such as the 
2008 Global Financial Crisis, MOM, NTUC, and SNEF came together, cutting 
costs to save jobs rather than the other way around. As a result, Singapore was 
able to bounce back faster and stronger than other economies (see Chapter 7). 
These painful trade-offs could not have been made by the Government without 
tripartite support.
NWC Chairman Mr Peter Seah added that tripartism will continue to be crucial 
for the future of Singapore, especially given the rapidly changing business and 
economic landscape. As such, there is an urgent need for the tripartite partners 
to reshape and build a workforce that can address the challenges ahead, he said.
“I think our tripartism is going to be very important and even more critical to 
Singapore, as we move forward.”6
In an interview for this book, Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng said that 
tripartism will continue to anchor MOM’s work in the future: “To amplify and 
advance our tripartite partnership, we will continue to work closely with NTUC Chapter 16: Charting the Path Ahead314 315
Charting Our Pathand SNEF to strengthen tripartism and identify new strategic collaborations on 
important issues such as the impact of AI on jobs and on workers.”7
Second, MOM will have to continue innovating to resolve increasingly complex 
and difficult challenges. The Progressive Wage Model (PWM), first proposed 
by NTUC in 2010 and subsequently developed by the tripartite partners, is 
one example (see Spotlight 5). Unlike a conventional wage floor, the PWM 
connected wage levels to skills and productivity, and started out on a smaller 
scale in cleaning, security, and landscaping using sector-specific levers. In 
another example, the tripartite partners adopted the concept of re-employment 
in 2012 after learning about the innovative practice in Japan, helping to 
overcome an impasse in discussions on extending the productive longevity of 
our seniors. MOM even innovated the concept of re-employment, with measures 
such as the Tripartite Guidelines on Re-employment, and an Employment 
Assistance Payment, helping to ensure the policy was smoothly implemented in  
Singapore’s context.
Third, MOM must anticipate economic and social trends, and plan for the 
long term. For example, the Manpower 21 Plan of 1999 focused on knowledge 
work as the key driving force of the 21st century, setting a strategy to raise the 
proportion of the workforce with the skills to take on new jobs in the knowledge 
economy. In addition to raising skills and productivity, the plan helped to 
develop national training systems and workplace practices around flexible and 
continuous learning to adapt to future shifts (see Chapter 5).
A New Path
This book was an attempt to chronicle the paths that MOM took to shape the 
globally competitive workforce we observe today. A new and different path may 
be needed for the challenges of the future. But guideposts for this new approach will come from MOM’s most recent past, and the challenges that MOM  
has overcome.
One key strategy is to go beyond uplifting vulnerable segments of the workforce, 
to expanding efforts to upgrade the broad middle. Recognising that challenges 
arising from Singapore’s ageing population require an even sharper emphasis 
on labour productivity growth, MOM is laying the foundations of the Career 
Health SG programme to empower the broad base of Singaporean workers with 
the skills and mindset to adapt to emerging workforce trends (see Chapter 
14). The introduction of the SkillsFuture Jobseeker Support scheme, in itself a 
paradigm shift as Singapore’s version of an unemployment benefit, is also part 
of this larger strategic shift towards upgrading the broad middle.
Larger shifts are also taking place in the area of progressive and productive 
workplaces. MOM and the tripartite partners responded to the emergence of 
platform work, which created new forms of vulnerability, with the Platform 
Workers Bill – making Singapore one of the first countries to designate and  
protect platform workers as a distinct category. Changing societal mindsets 
around workplace discrimination have also been reflected in the Workplace 
Fairness Act, which represents a more robust stance compared to the softer 
approaches towards workplace discrimination in earlier decades (see Chapter 15).
Another important shift is MOM’s relationship with businesses. MOM plays 
multiple roles. It is a regulator and enforcer of manpower and workplace 
safety rules. It is also an enabler of economic growth. Mr Jeffrey Siow, Second 
Permanent Secretary at both MOM and the Ministry of Trade and Industry,  
noted in an interview that to succeed in its mission, MOM must be seen by 
businesses as an enabling and constructive partner. “The logic is that MOM 
should help businesses to thrive, because thriving businesses will be able to 
take better care of their employees.”Chapter 16: Charting the Path Ahead316 317
Charting Our PathChapter 16: Charting the Path Ahead
The next bound is being charted across MOM’s agenda, including shaping the 
foreign workforce profile needed to achieve productivity-driven economic 
growth, transforming our foreign manpower management approach towards a 
resilient migrant workforce, making our workplaces more inclusive, extending 
the productive longevity for increasingly educated future cohorts of seniors, 
and strengthening retirement adequacy for different segments. 
Shaping the longer-term direction in these policy areas will have a significant 
impact on Singaporeans. For instance, the recent Majulah Package had a 
focus on supporting young seniors, currently in their 50s and early 60s, who 
have had less time to benefit from improvements to the CPF system than  
younger generations. Speaking at the MOM Workplan Seminar in 2024, MOM 
Permanent Secretary Mr Ng Chee Khern said: “Efforts to shape the longer-term 
agenda have led to a refreshed social compact: For those who are able to work, 
we will enable them to build their CPF savings, to assure them of meeting their 
basic retirement needs as long as they contribute consistently to CPF. For those 
who need greater support, we will continue to uplift them, and work with 
families, employers and the community to provide more support.”8
A Refreshed Mission and Vision
With the changing operating context and the new and different paths that 
MOM may need to take, coalescing around a clear direction and purpose will be 
crucial. On its 70th anniversary, MOM refreshed its Mission and Vision which 
had guided its work since 2013.
Outlining MOM’s core tenets, Mr Ng Chee Khern said in an interview for this 
book: “MOM has a unique role, being described as the most social of the economic 
ministries, and the most economic of the social ministries. This means that 
MOM is responsible for translating economic growth into good socio-economic outcomes and jobs for Singaporeans. This makes MOM’s work complex as we 
must be well informed about the dynamics of the labour market and human 
capital, and navigate the trade-offs between social and economic dimensions.”9
 
The 2025 Mission refresh further clarifies what MOM intends to do with and 
for Singaporeans, workers and businesses, and the long-term impact that MOM 
aims to achieve for the workforce and workplaces. For Singaporeans, MOM 
seeks to empower them to access good job opportunities and have a secure 
retirement. For workers, it is to provide them with safe, fair and progressive 
workplaces. For businesses, MOM aims to enable them to thrive and create 
good jobs and workplaces.
MOM’s refreshed Vision is for Singapore to have an empowered workforce and 
thriving workplaces. This means having a workforce equipped with the skills, 
knowledge and resources to make informed decisions, seize opportunities and 
take charge of their careers; and workplaces that provide opportunities for all to 
participate in the labour force, and where workers can contribute their best and 
their productive capacity can be effectively harnessed.
Collectively, the refreshed Mission and Vision articulate what MOM plans to do 
in navigating the complex operating environment in 2025 and beyond.319As we commemorate MOM’s 70th Anniversary, we recognise 
the invaluable contributions of all past and present MOM and 
tripartite leaders, who have played an instrumental role in our 
journey and achievements over the past decades.320 321Charting Our Path Acknowledgements
Past and Present Ministers
Mr Ahmad took office as Minister 
for Labour in 1961, when the 
Ministry’s name was changed 
from “Ministry of Labour and 
Law” to “Ministry of Labour”, 
reflecting its focus on labour 
issues. His leadership was 
instrumental in strengthening 
the role of labour unions and 
improving working conditions, 
which laid the foundation for 
future labour reforms.Minister for Labour 
(1961 – 1962)Mr Ahmad Ibrahim
As Acting Minister for Labour in 
1962, Mr Ong worked with the 
National Trades Union Congress 
(NTUC) to establish a centralised 
labour research unit. It was 
subsequently incorporated into 
NTUC, which continues a strong 
focus on research to future-proof 
workers today. During his tenure, 
he oversaw Singapore’s policy  
of wage restraint to maintain  
its labour-intensive exports 
industries’ international 
competitiveness. Mr Ong 
also helmed efforts to raise 
productivity, including the 
establishment of the National 
Productivity Board in 1972; and 
spearheaded the introduction of 
the Factories Act in 1973, which 
laid down safety regulations.Acting Minister for Labour 
(1962 – 1963)
Minister for Labour  
(1971 – 1981)Mr Ong Pang Boon
During Mr Byrne’s tenure, he 
focused on stabilising industrial 
relations, introducing the Trade 
Unions (Amendment) Bill which 
enhanced the Government’s 
powers to cancel registration of 
irresponsible trade unions. The 
Industrial Relations Ordinance 
was also passed to establish 
an Industrial Arbitration Court, 
which could make binding 
decisions on the terms and 
conditions of employment, 
including wages, and disputes 
involving unionised companies.Minister for Labour and Law 
(1959 – 1961)Mr Kenneth Michael ByrneMr Lim played a key role in 
leading the Ministry of Labour 
and Welfare as it navigated 
Singapore’s turbulent early 
years of self-governance which 
were plagued by industrial 
unrest. He laid the groundwork 
for labour reforms when he 
formed the Singapore Trades 
Union Congress (STUC) in 1951, 
and served as its president until 
1955. As Minister for Labour 
and Welfare, he contributed 
to mediation efforts for many 
disputes, including the Hock Lee  
bus strikes.Minister for Labour and 
Welfare (1955 – 1959)Mr Lim Yew Hock
322 323Charting Our Path
During Mr Ong’s tenure, the 
Ministry oversaw the corrective 
high-wage policy introduced 
by the National Wages Council 
from 1979, helping to drive 
the economy to move up the 
value chain. He continued 
contributing to labour issues 
after his tenure in the Ministry 
as Secretary-General of NTUC, 
where he championed lower-
income workers’ rights and 
garnered workers’ support for 
Central Provident Fund (CPF) 
cuts during the 1985 recession.Minister for Labour 
(1981 – 1983)Mr Ong Teng CheongMr Barker was interim  
Minister for Labour from May 
to September 1983, while also 
serving as Minister for Law.  
He was part of Singapore’s first 
post-independence cabinet and 
was instrumental in stabilising 
the country in its early years. Minister for Labour  
(1983 – 1983)Mr Edmund William BarkerDuring the turbulent 1960s, 
Mr Jek played a key role in 
establishing trust with the 
Chinese-speaking unions. 
He pushed for the landmark 
1968 Employment Act, which 
standardised employment 
conditions and paved the way 
for rapid industrialisation. He 
also introduced the Industrial 
Relations Act and the Trade 
Unions Act to regulate 
the collective bargaining, 
conciliation, and arbitration of 
individual disputes and proper 
management of union affairs, 
safe custody of funds, and the 
free election of union officers.Minister for Labour 
(1963 – 1968)Mr Jek Yeun ThongAs Singapore found its feet  
as an independent nation,  
Mr Rajaratnam laid the 
foundations of tripartism and 
industrial peace which were 
instrumental to the country’s 
early growth. His vision for 
tripartism helped transform 
fractious labour relations 
between unions, employers, and 
the Government into the unique 
cooperative model of tripartism 
we have today.Minister for Labour 
(1968 – 1971)Mr S. Rajaratnam
Past and Present MinistersAcknowledgements324 325Charting Our Path
Under Dr Lee’s watch, 
retirement age legislation was 
introduced for the first time in 
1993, establishing a minimum 
retirement age of 60, which was 
raised to 62 in 1999. In the late 
1990s, he oversaw the Ministry 
of Labour’s transition to the 
Ministry of Manpower and the 
rollout of the Manpower 21 
blueprint to develop Singapore 
as a global talent hub. This 
expanded the Ministry’s role 
in workforce development, 
introducing concepts such 
as lifelong learning, and 
crystallising MOM’s role in 
transforming the country’s 
workforce to meet future 
manpower needs.Minister for Labour  
(1992 – 1998)  
Minister for Manpower  
(1998 – 2003)Dr Lee Boon YangActing Minister for 
Manpower (2003 – 2004)
Minister for Manpower 
(2004 – 2008)
Following the SARS outbreak,  
Dr Ng started a renewed push 
for a more flexible wage system, 
and enhanced upskilling and 
job-matching efforts under the 
new Workforce Development 
Agency. The Factories Act was 
replaced by the Workplace Safety 
and Health (WSH) Act, raising 
WSH standards by reducing 
risks at source and encouraging 
greater industry ownership. 
Dr Ng also introduced the 
Workfare Income Supplement 
scheme to supplement the 
income and retirement savings 
of lower-wage workers and 
spearheaded the development 
of CPF LIFE, ensuring lifelong 
retirement payouts, along with 
CPF Minimum Sum reforms, to 
enhance retirement adequacy 
for Singaporeans.Dr Ng Eng HenDuring his tenure, Professor 
Jayakumar announced major 
changes to the CPF system, 
such as the Minimum Sum 
Scheme where one had to set 
aside funds for retirement before 
withdrawing savings. This would 
ensure Singaporeans had a safety 
net of savings to fall back on. He 
also proposed raising the CPF 
withdrawal age to better cater to 
Singaporeans who were starting 
to retire later. Furthermore, he 
advocated efforts to increase 
workers’ productivity.Acting Minister for Labour 
(1983 – 1984)
Minister for Labour  
(1984 – 1985)Professor S. JayakumarActing Minister for Labour 
(1985 – 1986)
Minister for Labour 
(1987 – 1992)
Mr Lee guided Singapore’s 
workforce through the  
1985-1986 recession by working 
with tripartite partners to garner 
support for necessary CPF and 
wage cuts to save jobs. After 
the recession, he also oversaw 
the country’s wage reform 
exercise, to make Singapore’s 
businesses more responsive to 
economic downturns. It aimed 
to move companies away from 
seniority-based pay to a more 
flexible wage system closely 
linked to the performance 
of individual workers and 
economic conditions. Mr Lee’s 
contributions helped steer 
Singapore back to stability  
after the recession.Mr Lee Yock Suan
Acknowledgements
Past and Present Ministers326
Charting Our Path 327During the Global Financial Crisis, 
Mr Gan led the Ministry to help 
companies retain employees 
through the Skills Programme for 
Upgrading and Resilience (SPUR) 
and the Jobs Credit Scheme.  
Post-crisis, he expanded 
Singapore’s Continuing Education 
and Training system, enabling 
senior lower-wage workers 
and others to upskill and stay 
employable. In 2011, the Retirement 
Age Act was amended to introduce 
re-employment, enhancing 
workers’ employability beyond 
the minimum retirement age. He 
also improved migrant worker 
housing conditions, through 
stricter enforcement of housing 
regulations and setting up of 
Purpose-Built Dormitories with 
facilities to cater to workers’ social 
and recreational needs. Acting Minister for 
Manpower (2008 – 2009)
Minister for Manpower 
(2009 – 2011)
Deputy Prime Minister  
(2024 – Present)
Mr Gan Kim Yong
Mr Lim Swee SayMinister for Manpower  
(2015 – 2018)
Leveraging his deep 
understanding of labour  
issues, the former NTUC  
Secretary-General took steps 
to improve workers’ welfare 
and prioritise the Singaporean 
core. Mr Lim launched the 
Adapt and Grow initiative to 
train workers and help them 
find jobs through Professional 
Conversion Programmes and 
the Career Support Programme. 
He strengthened the Tripartite 
Alliance for Fair and Progressive 
Employment Practices 
(TAFEP) and Fair Consideration 
Framework to protect workers 
from discrimination. To improve 
senior workers’ employability 
and retirement adequacy,  
Mr Lim raised the re-employment 
age and increased CPF 
contribution rates for some 
senior workers. Mr Shanmugaratnam played 
vital roles in developing 
Workfare and the Progressive 
Wage Model to uplift lower-
wage workers, Silver Support 
for lower income retirees, and 
CPF LIFE to cater to increasing 
lifespans. He introduced the 
Jobs Credit Scheme during the 
Global Financial Crisis, and led 
the National Jobs Council in 
the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. 
He also led the SkillsFuture 
movement to champion lifelong 
learning as a reality for all, 
and chaired tripartite councils 
which laid the foundations 
for Singapore’s drive to raise 
productivity through innovation 
and upskilling.Minister for Manpower  
(2011 – 2012); Deputy  
Prime Minister (2011 – 2019); 
Coordinating Minister 
for Economic and Social 
Policies (2015 – 2019); Senior 
Minister and Coordinating 
Minister for Social Policies 
(2019 – 2023)
Mr Tharman Shanmugaratnam
Mr Tan Chuan-JinMr Tan led the Ministry’s efforts 
to introduce the Silver Support 
Scheme, raise senior workers’ CPF 
contribution rates, and review the 
re-employment age, to strengthen 
retirement adequacy. Under 
his leadership, the Workright 
programme was launched to raise 
awareness and compliance with 
employment standards. He also 
implemented the Progressive Wage 
Model to raise wages of lower-wage 
workers by upgrading skills and 
improving productivity. To promote 
fair employment practices, he 
introduced the Fair Consideration 
Framework. Additionally, he 
amended the Employment Act  
and Industrial Relations Act to better 
protect professionals, managers, 
and executives, and established the 
Employment Claims Tribunal for 
resolving salary-related disputes.Acting Minister for 
Manpower (2012 – 2014)
Minister for Manpower  
(2014 – 2015)Acknowledgements
Past and Present Ministers328 329Charting Our Path
Under Mrs Teo’s leadership, 
Singapore achieved a tripartite 
consensus on a 10-year roadmap 
to raise the re-employment and 
minimum retirement ages. She 
oversaw enhancements to the 
Silver Support Scheme, Workfare 
Income Supplement Scheme 
and Progressive Wage Model 
to better support senior and 
lower-wage workers. Mrs Teo 
led the Ministry’s emergency 
response during the COVID-19 
pandemic, guiding companies 
on safe practices and overseeing 
the rollout of jobs and training 
schemes to help workers stay 
employed. She also led efforts 
to safeguard the health and 
well-being of workers, including 
those living in migrant  
worker dormitories. Minister for Manpower  
(2018 – 2021)
Mrs Josephine TeoDr Tan led the Ministry to 
emerge stronger post COVID-19. 
He championed career health 
initiatives, helping locals to 
assess and upgrade their skills, 
and stay employable for longer. 
He spearheaded efforts to make 
workplaces more progressive 
and inclusive by safeguarding 
against workplace discrimination, 
expanding the coverage of 
the Progressive Wage Model 
and strengthening protections 
for platform workers. To grow 
Singapore’s talent ecosystem, he 
introduced schemes such as the 
Complementarity Assessment 
Framework (COMPASS)
and Overseas Networks & 
Expertise (ONE) Pass. Dr Tan 
also transformed the migrant 
worker landscape by fortifying 
housing standards and improving 
healthcare support and  
social well-being.Minister for Manpower  
(2021 – Present)
Dr Tan See LengSenior Ministers of State, Ministers of State, Senior Parliamentary Secretaries 
and Parliamentary Secretaries
Past
Mr Wee Toon Boon 
Parliamentary Secretary  
(1959 – 1965)
Mr Sia Kah Hui 
Parliamentary Secretary  
(1967 – 1970)
Minister of State  
(1970 – 1981)
Mr Fong Sip Chee 
Parliamentary Secretary  
(1972 – 1976)
Senior Parliamentary Secretary  
(1977 – 1981)
Dr Wong Kwei Cheong 
Minister of State  
(1981 – 1983)
Mr Eugene Yap Giau Cheng 
Parliamentary Secretary  
(1981 – 1984)
Senior Parliamentary Secretary  
(1985 – 1987)
Mr Lee Yock Suan 
Senior Minister of State  
(1985 – 1986)
Dr Ong Chit Chung 
Parliamentary Secretary  
(1991 – 1993)
Mr Lee Yiok Seng 
Senior Parliamentary Secretary  
(1994 – 1996)
Mr Othman Haron Eusofe 
Minister of State 
(1997 – 2001)
Dr Ng Eng Hen 
Minister of State  
(2002 – 2003)Mr Hawazi Daipi 
Senior Parliamentary Secretary  
(2004 – 2015)
Mr Gan Kim Yong 
Minister of State  
(2005 – 2008)
Mr Lee Yi Shyan 
Minister of State  
(2009 – 2011)
Dr Amy Khor Lean Suan 
Minister of State  
(2012 – 2013)
Senior Minister of State  
(2013 – 2015)
Mr Teo Ser Luck 
Minister of State  
(2015 – 2017)
Mr Sam Tan Chin Siong 
Minister of State  
(2015 – 2018)
Ms Low Yen Ling 
Senior Parliamentary Secretary  
(2018 – 2020)
Present
Mr Zaqy Mohamad 
Minister of State  
(2018 – 2020)
Senior Minister of State  
(2020 – Present)
Dr Koh Poh Koon 
Senior Minister of State  
(2021 – Present)
Ms Gan Siow Huang 
Minister of State  
(2020 – Present)Acknowledgements
Past and Present Ministers330 331Charting Our Path
Permanent Secretaries National Trades Union Congress 
Presidents and Secretaries-General
Past
Mr Pang Tee Pow  
Permanent Secretary (Labour)  
(1966 – 1970)
Mr Lim Joo Hock  
Permanent Secretary (Labour)  
(1970 – 1972)
Dr William Cheng  
Permanent Secretary (Labour)  
(1972 – 1978)
Dr Han Cheng Fong  
Permanent Secretary (Labour)  
(1978– 1984)
Mr Moh Siew Meng  
Permanent Secretary (Labour)  
(1984 – 1991)
Mr Chuang Kwong Yong  
Permanent Secretary (Labour)  
(1991 – 1994)
Mr Moses Lee  
Permanent Secretary (Labour)  
(1994 – 1997)
Dr Tan Chin Nam  
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)  
(1997 – 2001)Past
Mr Ho See Beng  
Chairman  
(1962 – 1964)
President  
(1964 – 1966)
Mr Peter Vincent  
President  
(1967 – 1970)  
(1981 – 1985)
Mr Phey Yew Kok  
President  
(1970 – 1979)
Mr Devan Nair  
President  
(1979 – 1981)
Mr George Chua Poh Choon  
President  
(1985 – 1986)
Mr Oscar Oliveiro  
President  
(1986 – 1997)
Mr John De Payva  
President  
(1997 – 2011)
Ms Diana Chia Siew Fui  
President  
(2011 – 2015)
Ms Mary Liew Kiah Eng  
President  
(2015 – 2023)
Ms K. Thanaletchimi  
President  
(2023 – Present)Ms Yong Ying-I  
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)  
(2002 – 2005)
Mr Leo Yip  
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)  
(2005 – 2009)
Mr Loh Khum Yean  
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)  
(2009 – 2016)
Mr Aubeck Kam  
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)  
(2016 – 2022)
Mr Chia Der Jiun  
Permanent Secretary (Development)  
(2020 – 2023)
Present
Mr Ng Chee Khern  
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)  
(2022 – Present)
Mr Jeffrey Siow  
Second Permanent Secretary (Manpower)  
(2024 – Present)Mr Devan Nair  
Secretary-General  
(1961 – 1965)  
(1970 – 1979)
Mr Steve Nayagan  
Secretary-General  
(1965 – 1966)
Mr Ho See Beng  
Secretary-General  
(1966 – 1967)
Mr Seah Mui Kok  
Secretary-General  
(1967 – 1970)
Mr Lim Chee Onn  
Secretary-General  
(1979 – 1983)
Mr Ong Teng Cheong  
Secretary-General  
(1983 – 1993)
Mr Lim Boon Heng  
Secretary-General  
(1993 – 2006)
Mr Lim Swee Say  
Secretary-General  
(2007 – 2015)
Mr Chan Chun Sing  
Secretary-General  
(2015 – 2018)
Present
Mr Ng Chee Meng  
Secretary-General  
(2018 – Present)Acknowledgements332 333Charting Our Path
Past
Mr Jack Chiarapurk 
President 
(1980 – 1988)
Mr Stephen Lee 
President 
(1988 – 2014)
Dr Robert Yap 
President 
(2014 – 2024)
Present 
Mr Tan Hee Teck 
President 
(2024 – Present)Ministry of Manpower
Dr Tan See Leng 
Minister for Manpower 
(2021 – Present)
Mrs Josephine Teo 
Minister for Manpower  
(2018 – 2021)
Mr Lim Swee Say 
Minister for Manpower  
(2015 – 2018)
Mr Gan Kim Yong 
Minister for Manpower  
(2009 – 2011)
Dr Ng Eng Hen 
Minister for Manpower  
(2004 – 2008)
Dr Lee Boon Yang 
Minister for Labour  
(1992 – 1998)
Minister for Manpower  
(1998 – 2003)
Mr Lee Yock Suan 
Minister for Labour  
(1985 – 1992)
Mr Ng Chee Khern 
Permanent Secretary (Manpower) 
(2022 – Present)
Mr Chia Der Jiun 
Permanent Secretary (Development)  
(2020 – 2023)
Mr Aubeck Kam 
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)  
(2016 – 2022)Singapore National Employers Federation  
PresidentsWe would like to express our heartfelt gratitude to the numerous individuals  
who have contributed to the development of this book.
Mr Loh Khum Yean 
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)  
(2009 – 2016)
Mr Leo Yip 
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)  
(2005 – 2009)
Ms Yong Ying-I 
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)  
(2002 – 2005)
Dr Tan Chin Nam 
Permanent Secretary (Manpower)  
(1997 – 2001)
Mr Moses Lee 
Permanent Secretary (Labour)  
(1994 – 1997)
Mr Kenny Tan 
Deputy Secretary (Workforce) 
(2023 – Present)
Mr Ong Yen Her 
Divisional Director 
Labour Relations & Workplaces Division  
(1985 – 2002)
Mrs Penny Han 
Divisional Director 
Work Pass Division  
(2012 – 2023)
Er Ho Siong Hin 
Senior Director 
Occupational Safety & Health Division 
(2019 – Present)IntervieweesAcknowledgements334Charting Our Path
Interviewees
National Trades Union Congress
Ms Diana Chia Siew Fui 
President 
(2011 – 2015)
Mr Ng Chee Meng 
Secretary-General 
(2018 – Present)
Mr Lim Boon Heng 
Secretary-General 
(1993 – 2006)
Singapore National Employers 
Federation
Mr Tan Hee Teck 
President 
(2024 – Present) 
 
Dr Robert Yap 
President 
(2014 – 2024)
Mr Stephen Lee 
President 
(1988 – 2014)
Mr Sim Gim Guan 
Executive Director 
(2020 – 2024)
National Wages Council
Mr Peter Seah 
Chairman 
(2015 – Present)
Prof Lim Pin 
Chairman  
(2001 – 2014)We would also like to extend our special thanks to  
Terence Ho Wai Luen, Associate Professor (Practice)  
at the Singapore University of Social Sciences;  
staff from Central Provident Fund Board (CPFB),  
Ministry of Education (MOE),  
National Population and Talent Division (NPTD),  
National Trades Union Congress (NTUC),  
Singapore Department of Statistics (DOS), 
Singapore National Employers Federation (SNEF)
SkillsFuture Singapore (SSG), 
Tripartite Alliance for Dispute Management (TADM),  
Workforce Singapore (WSG);  
and all past and present MOMers  
who contributed in the reviewing and vetting of the book.
335Acknowledgements337Chapter 1
1 “The Night When Singapore Went Mad”, in Sonny Yap, Richard Lim, and Leong Weng Kam,  
 Men in White: The Untold Story of Singapore’s Political Party (Singapore: Singapore Press Holdings,  
 2009), 77-94.  
2  “1950s”, (National Trades Union Congress), https://reunion.ntuc.org.sg/1950s.  
3  Tania Ng, “The Rendel Commission”, Singapore Infopedia, (National Library Board),  
 https://www.nlb.gov.sg/main/article-detail?cmsuuid=5781af87-b7b5-4c91-a1a7-bfe92c3e0c15.  
4 Government records, Ministry of Labour, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/  
 government_records/agency-details/38.  
5 EW Barltrop, “Labour Advisory to the Secretary in charge of the Colonies, to the heads of  
 departments in Malaya and Singapore, File ref: LM477/47,” 1947, 28.  
6 Michael R. Stenson, Industrial Conflict in Malaya: Prelude to the Communist Revolt of 1948 (Oxford:  
 Oxford University Press, 1970).  
7  Ministry of Labour, Singapore, Industrial Relations Act: Law and Practice   
 (Singapore: Ministry of Labour, 1977), 19, https://www.nlb.gov.sg/main/article-  
 detail?cmsuuid=a872b4a9-99cc-4d65-922c-333b2cba3549.  
8 EW Barltrop, Letter to the Governor of Singapore on his observations on the state  
 of industrial relations in Singapore and his suggestions to limit strike action, File ref:  
 42/55, 20 Sep 1955, 6-11.  
9 A.J Stockwell, ‘A widespread and long-concocted plot to overthrow the government in Malaya?  
 The origins of the Malayan Emergency’, Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth History 21 (1993),  
 66–88.  
10  Ministry of Labour, Singapore, Industrial Relations Act: Law and Practice (Singapore: Ministry of  
 Labour, 1977), 19.  
11  Singapore Department of Statistics, Report on the Census of Population 1957, 43.  
12 Ministry of Labour, Singapore, Industrial Relations Act: Law and Practice (Singapore: Ministry of  
 Labour, 1977), 19.  
13  TS Lim and Jamie Han, “Industrial Relations Ordinance and Industrial Arbitration Court”,  
 Singapore Infopedia, https://www.nlb.gov.sg/main/article-detail?cmsuuid=a872b4a9 
 -99cc-4d65-922c-333b2cba3549.  
14  Saw Swee-Hock, The Population of Singapore, 2nd ed (Singapore: Institute of Southeast Asian  
 Studies, 2007), 15.  
15 Saw Swee-Hock, The Population of Singapore, 2nd ed (Singapore: Institute of Southeast Asian  
 Studies, 2007), 15.  
16 “Crouching Ranks Broke in 12 mins”, The Straits Times, May 11, 1955.  
17 A. Doak Barnett, “A Chronology of Three Months of Unrest in Singapore”, July 15, 1955,  
 https://www.icwa.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/ADB-83.pdf.  
18 Joshua Chia, “Great Singapore Traction Company Strike”, Singapore Infopedia, https://  
 www.nlb.gov.sg/main/article-detail?cmsuuid=7ce740e8-2bf6-490b-bc29-9fb1433bd9ec.  
19 Government record, “Hock Lee Bus Company Dispute - Appointment of Court of Inquiry,”  
 National Archives of Singapore, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/government_   
 records/record-details/c4694742-5abc-11eb-b519-005056a7c31c.  
20  People’s Action Party (Singapore), “The Tasks Ahead: PAP’s Five-Year Plan, 1959–1964,  
 Part 1”, Petir, 1959, 19–20.  
21 Albert Winsemius, “Speech to GE International Personnel Council Meeting in Singapore”,  
 June 19, 1984, https://www.sg101.gov.sg/economy/surviving-our-independence/ 
 1965-1970/.  
22 Industrial Relations Bill, second reading, Parliament, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/   
 search/#/topic?reportid=013_19600210_S0003_T0005.  
23 “Industrial Relations Ordinance and Industrial Arbitration Court”, Singapore Infopedia,  
 https://www.nlb.gov.sg/main/article-detail?cmsuuid=a872b4a9-99cc-4d65-922c-  
 333b2cba3549.  
24 “$4m. back-pay for 11,500 port men”, The Straits Times. February 4, 1966.Notes338 339
Charting Our Path21  Extract on Industrial Relations from “A Proposed Industrialization Programme for the  
State of Singapore” by the United 
Nations Industrial Survey Mission Appointed under the  
 United Nations Programme of Technical Ass
istance. 
22 Lim Chong Yah, Singapore’s National Wages Council: An Insider’s View (Singapore: World  
Scientific, 2014). 
23 “Call for a Pay Rise Formula”, The Straits Times , April 12, 1970, and “Bosses ‘Yes’ to Pay Council”,  
 The Straits Times,
 June 20, 1971. 
24 Tan Chung Lee, The Story of NWC: 40 Years of Tripartite Commitment and Partnership  
 (Singapore: Straits Times Press,
 2013), 449. 
25 International Labour Organization, “ILO Study Mission on Singapore’s Tripartism  
Framework: Prospects for Ratification 
of the Tripartite Consultation (International  
 Labour Standards) Convention”, January 14,
 2010. 
26 “Draft Cabinet Paper on Wage Council”, (File: National Wages Council – Correspondence 1972). 
27 NAS article on Winsemius and his oral interview in 1982; and NTUC website article on the  
“Formation of NWC” featuring quote by former 
PM Lee Kuan Yew at NTUC’s 50th  
anniversary celebrations. 
28 Loh Kah Seng, Jeremy Goh, “Semi -archives and i nterim archives: a history of the National Wages  
 Council in Singapore”, Southeast Asi
an Studies. 
29 Letter from Minister for Finance Hon Sui Sen to NWC Chairman Lim Chong Yah dated  
 17 Feb 1972 (File: National 
Wages Council – Correspondence 1972). 
30 “Notes of Meeting at the Prime Minister’s Office at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 1.3.72”,  
 (File: National Wages Council – Minutes
 of Meetings). 
31 “Notes of Meeting at the Prime Minister’s Office at 2.30pm on Tuesday, 22.2.72”,  
 (File: National Wages Council – 
Minutes of Meetings). 
32 Albert Winsemius, “Draft report on Labour Market and Wages Policy submitted by  
Albert Winsemius to Hon Sui Sen”,
 January 25, 1972 (File: Labour Market Wages Policy –  
 Part 1 & 2). 
33 National Wages Council, “The NWC Chairman’s letter to PM”, May 3, 1976,  
(File: NWC 1976/77 6th Meeting 
of the 5th Session: Tuesday, May 4, 1976, at 3.00pm) 
34 Minutes of the 4th meeting of the 3rd session of the NWC on 6 Mar 1974  
 (File: NWC Meeting 15 March 1974)
. 
35 Loh Kah Seng, Jeremy Goh, “Semi -archives and interim archives: a history of the  
 National Wages Council in Singapore”, 
Southeast Asian Studies, 438. 
36 Loh Kah Seng, Jeremy Goh, “Semi -archives and interim archives: a history of the  
 National Wages Council in Singapore”, 
Southeast Asian Studies, 437. 
37 International Labour Organization, “ILO Study Mission on Singapore’s Tripartism  
Framework: Prospects for Ratification 
of the Tripartite Consultation (International  
 Labour Standards) Convention”, January 14,
 2010. 
38 Singapore Department of Statistics; “Singapore National Accounts, 1967,  
Economic and Social 
Statistics, 1960-1982, and Yearbook of Statistics, 1991;  
Public Access Time Series 
database. 
39 Robert G. Carling, “Labor Market Policies,”, Singapore: A Case Study in Rapid Development , 
 International Monetary Fund. 
40 Singapore Department of Statistics, “Consumer Price Index (CPI) Over Previous Period,
    
 2019 As Base Year, Data series for 1973 and 1974”. 
41 Ministry of Labour, “National Wages Council Wage Increase Guidelines for 1972 and 1973”,  
National Archives of Singapore, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/government_records/  
 record-details/916cf62d-259b-11e9-b76c-001a4a5ba61b. 
42 Ministry of Labour, “National Wages Council Wage Increase Guidelines for 1972 and 1973”,  
National Archives of Singapore, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/government_records 
 /record-details/916cf62d-259b-11e9-b76c-001a4a5ba61b. Notes
25 “Lee Begins Talks to Avert Total British Pull-Out by 1975,” The Straits Times, June 27, 1967,  
26 Industrial Relations (Amendment) Bill, Parliament of Singapore, August 1, 1968. 
27 Jackie Sam, “The Bill to step up output,” The Straits Times, May 19, 1968,  
 https://eresources.nlb.gov.sg/newspapers/digitised/article/s
traitstimes19680519 
-1.2.115?qt=employment,%20act&q=employment%20act.
28 S. Rajaratnam, Second Reading of the Employment Bill, July 10, 1968, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/  
 search/#/topic?reportid=030_19680710_S0003
_T0007.
Chapter 2
1 Tommy Koh et al, eds., Singapore: The Encyclopedia (Singapore: Editions Didier Millet,  
 2006), 502. 
2 Sara Pek, “Economic Development Board,” Singapore Infopedia, National Library  
Board Singapore, https://www.nlb.gov.
sg/main/article-detail?cmsuuid=1ea4456f-dac4 
-4f57-9f9d-35d24af35807.  
3 Lee Hsien Loong, “PM Lee Hsien Loong at the NTUC National Delegates’ Conference  
 2023”, Prime Minister’s Offi
ce, Singapore, November 22, 2023, https://www.pmo.gov.sg 
 /Newsroom/PM-Lee-Hsien-Loong-at-the-NTUC-National-Delegates-Conference-2023.  
4 Lee T. H., The Open United Front: The Communist Struggle in Singapore, South Seas  
Society, 1996, 208–209.
 
5 Jek T. Y, “Speech by the Minister for Labour At the 50th Session of The International Labour  
Organization Conference”, June 7, 
1966, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/speeches/  
 record-details/7ac6fb06-115d-11e3-83d5-0050568939ad.  
6 “Urgent’ Bill to Safeguard Funds of S’pore unions”, The Straits Times , December 12, 1963. 
7 “Gov’t Says ‘No’ to Satu Bid for Federation,” The Straits Times, November 14, 1963. 
8 National Trades Union Congress, “The 1969 Story”, https://reunion.ntuc.org.sg/ 
 features/The-1969-Story.  
9 Lim Chee Onn, “The Role Of Trade Unions In The Further Industrialisation Of Singapore,”  
 December 10, 1977, https:
//www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/lco19771210001.pdf. 
10 Lim Chee Onn, “The Role Of Trade Unions In The Further Industrialisation Of Singapore,”  
 December 10, 1977. 
11 C.V. Devan Nair, “The 1969 Story,” National Trades Union Congress, https://reunion.ntuc.org.  
 sg/features/The-1969-Story.  
12 Lee Kuan Yew, “Modernizing the Labour Movement: Voices from the Past”, National Trades  
Union Congress, https://reunion.ntuc.
org.sg/features/Modernizing-the-Labour-Movement-  
 Voices-from-the-Past.  
13 Lee Kuan Yew, “Modernizing the Labour Movement: Voices from the Past”,  
National Trades Union Congress, https:
//reunion.ntuc.org.sg/features/Modernizing-the-  
 Labour-Movement-Voices-from-the-Past. 
14 S. Rajaratnam, “At NTUC Delegates Seminar On ‘Modernisation Of The Labour Movement,”  
 https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/audiovisual_
records/record-details/521e2675-1164-  
 11e3-83d5-0050568939ad. 
15 S. Rajaratnam, “At NTUC Delegates Seminar On ‘Modernisation Of The Labour Movement.” 
16 Lim Boon Heng, “Tripartism and Global Challenges: Opportunities and Challenges in   
Crises”, Tripartite Collective (TC)
 Dialogue, Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Progressive  
Employment Practices, May 
6, 2022. 
17 Lim Boon Heng, “Tripartism and Global Challenges: Opportunities and Challenges in Crises”,  
Tripartite Collective (TC) Dialogue, 
Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Progressive Employment  
 Practices, May 6, 2022.
 
18 Stewardship Asia Centre, “Tripartism In Singapore: A Stewardship Journey, Research Paper  
02”, 2020, 
16. 
19 MOM book interview with Ong Yen Her on June 11, 2024. 
20 Sng Hui Ying, “Albert Winsemius and Wage Policy in Singapore”, in Albert Winsemius:  
Here, It Is Going 
to Happen, World Scientific, 2022. 340 341
Charting Our Path24 Zuraidah Ibrahim, “SM’s Meeting with pilots: What happened at the Istana”, The Straits Times,  
 February 
29, 2004.  
25 “SIA pilots’ union promises new era of relations after meeting SM Lee”, Streats,  
 February 
27, 2004. 
26 See Trade Unions (Amendment)  Act 2004, Singapore Statutes Online; and Cherine Ang, Yancy  
Toh 
and Ong Boon Hwee, “Tripartism in Singapore: A Stewardship Journey”, Stewardship Asia  
 Res
earch Series 02. 
27 Lee Ching Wern, “When SMRT workers nearly went on strike”, Today, September 23, 2005. 
28 Cherine Ang, Yancy Toh, Ong Boon Hwee, “Tripartism in Singapore: A Stewardship Journey”,  
Stewards
hip Asia Research Series 02. 
29 Cherine Ang, Yancy Toh, Ong Boon Hwee, “Tripartism in Singapore: A Stewardship journey”,  
 Stewards
hip Asia Research Series 02. 
30 Lee Ching Wern, Today, “When SMRT workers nearly went on strike”, September 23, 2005.  
31 Royston Sim and Kezia Toh, “Key Grouse Said to Be over Unequal Salaries”, The Straits Times,  
 November 
27, 2012.  
32 Sumiko Tan, “29 Drivers to Be Sent Back to China Sumiko Tan”, The Straits Times,  
 December 
2, 2012.  
33 Toh Yong Chuan, “End of 26-Year Strike-Free Spell in Singapore”, The Straits Times,  
 November 
28, 2012. 
34 “They Debate the Issues of the Strike”, The New Paper, November 29, 2012. 
35 Royston Sim and Chia Yan Min, “All SMRT Bus Services Running as Scheduled”,  
 The 
Straits Times, November 29, 2012.  
36 Maria Almenoar, “Police Call In 20 SMRT Bus Drivers”, The Straits Times, November 29, 2012.  
37 Christopher Tan, “Govt Moves against ‘Illegal Strike’”, The Straits Times, November 28, 2012. 
38 Amelia Tan, “Bus Driver Repatriated after Jail Term”, The Straits Times, January 2, 2013.  
39 Christopher Tan, “SMRT Has Deep-Seated Issues: CEO”, The Straits Times, December 1, 2012.  
40 Jermyn Chow and Royston Sim, “SMRT Boss Shakes Up Bus Ops Management”, The Straits Times,  
 February 
15, 2013.  
41 Jermyn Chow, “Three-Quarters of SMRT’s PRC Drivers Now Union Members: Lim Swee Say”,  
 The 
Straits Times, February 5, 2013. 
42 Cherine Ang, Yancy Toh, Ong Boon Hwee, “Tripartism in Singapore: A Stewardship Journey”,  
 Stewards
hip Asia Research Series 02. 
43 Pew Research Center, “Labour disputes of 2023 led to some of the largest work stoppages  
 in 
decades”, 2023. 
44 Angeline Chrisafis, “Protests and disruption in France as transport workers start strikes”,  
 The 
Guardian, March 7, 2023. 
45 MOM book interview with Gan Kim Yong on August 21, 2024. 
46 MOM book interview with Josephine Teo on July 10, 2024. 
47 Guy Ryder, “Speech by ILO Director-General Guy Ryder to the International Forum on  
 Tripartism” 
International Tripartism Forum, October 26, 2015. 
48 Cherine Ang, Yancy Toh, Ong Boon Hwee, “Tripartism in Singapore: A Stewardship Journey”,  
 Stewards
hip Asia Research Series 02. 
49 MOM book interview with Gan Kim Yong on August 21, 2024.
Chapter 3
1 Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, “Singapore’s Productivity Challenge: A Historical  
 Perspective”,
 2016, 6. 
2 “1965-1970:  Singapore’s Development Plan”,  
 https:
//www.sg101.gov.sg/economy/
 
surviving-our-independence/1965-1970.  
3 “1965-1970:  Singapore’s Development Plan”, https://www.sg101.gov.sg/economy/surviving-our 
-independence/1965-1970.
4 “A takeover of 15,000 acres”, The Straits Times, February 23, 1968. Notes
43 Minutes of the 4th meeting of the 3rd session of the NWC on March 6, 1974 (File: NWC Meeting  
15 
March 1974). Employer representatives estimated that 71%, or more, of employers complied  
with 
the NWC recommendation for an interim monthly wage supplement of $25 for workers  
earning 
less than $1000. 
44 The Singapore Economy: New Directions: Report of the Economic Committee  
 (Singapore:
 Ministry of Trade & Industry, 1986). 
45 See also Tan Chung Lee, The Story of NWC: 40 Years of Tripartite Commitment and Partnership  
 (Singapore:
 Straits Times Press, 2013), 115-16. 
46 “Progress Report on the Implementation of the National Wages Council Recommendations  
(File:
 09/92 V4 National Wages Council – Minutes of Meeting).
Spotlight 1
1 Elaine Koh, “Workers at Hydril go on strike”, The Business Times, January 3, 1986. 
2 Paul Jacob, “Workers strike over ‘anti-union’ moves by firm”, The Straits Times,  
 February 
3, 1986. 
3 Ivan Lee, Valerie Lim, “NTUC watching ‘cheap way’ to sack workers”, The Straits Times,  
 January 
5, 1986. 
4 Cherine Ang, Yancy Toh, Ong Boon Hwee, “Tripartism in Singapore: A Stewardship Journey”,  
Stewards
hip Asia Research Series 02, https://www.stewardshipasia.com.sg/docs/saclibraries/
 
 default-document-library/download78079996-e60c-4f92-8c2
9-8eaae973202c.pdf?sfvrsn=b5 
 d42ba5
_1. 
5 “I Had a Job To Do”, Asiaweek  26, no. 9 (March 10, 2000). 
6 “I Had a Job To Do”, Asiaweek  26, no. 9 (March 10, 2000). 
7 Lim Boon Heng, Speech by Mr Lim Boon Heng, Secretary-General, National Trades Union  
Congress
, and Minister, Prime Minister office, at the Tripartite Industrial Relations Seminar,  
 held 
at the Orchard Hotel, 2010. 
8 Gerald Tan, “Strikes strike Singapore: The undertone of industrial relations”, The Malaysian  
 Insi
der, November 27, 2012. 
9 Claire Huang, “NTUC membership grew by over 30% in last few years to hit 1.3 million”,  
 The 
Straits Times, May 1, 2024 
10 “Strike Called Off”, The Straits Times, January 5, 1986. 
11 Toh Yong Chuan, “The civil servant who sorted out Singapore’s last strike”,  
 The 
Straits Times, April 30, 2012. 
12 MOM book interview with Ong Yen Her on June 11, 2024. 
13 Cherine Ang, Yancy Toh, Ong Boon Hwee, “Tripartism in Singapore: A Stewardship Journey”,  
 Stewards
hip Asia Research Series 02. 
14 Chris Leggett, “Airline Pilots and Public Industrial Relations: The Case of Singapore Airlines”,  
 Indi
an Journal of Industrial Relations, Vol. 20, No. 1 (Jul., 1984), 27-43. 
15 Ahmad Osman, “Three pilots and engineer sacked”, December 10, 1980, The Straits Times. 
16 Janie Khoo and Ahmad Osman, “Summons for Siapa and six exco men”, The Straits Times,  
 November 
30, 1980. 
17 Hendrick Chng, “In 1980, Lee Kuan Yew told SIA pilots’ union he was prepared to ground  
 airline 
& start over”, Mothership.sg, November 16, 2017. 
18 Prime Minister’s Office, “Improving Labour Relations in Singapore Airlines (SIA)”,  
 30 
November 2003, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/2003113001.htm. 
19 Ven Sreenivasan, “Dream ends for 206 SIA cabin crew trainees”, The Business Times,  
 April 
12, 2003. 
20 Nicholas Fang, “SIA crew to take unpaid leave”, The Straits Times, May 1, 2003. 
21 Rebecca Lee, “NTUC chief weighs in to criticise pilots”, The Straits Times, November 25, 2003. 
22 Rebecca Lee, “NTUC chief weighs in to criticise pilots”, The Straits Times, November 25, 2003.  
23 Laurel Teo and Rebecca Lee, “Govt will not let pilots ‘do Singapore in’: DPM”, The Straits Times,  
November 
29, 2003. 342 343
Charting Our Path6 National Archives of Singapore, “Albert Winsemius Oral History Interview”, August 31, 1982,  
	 https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/flipviewer/publish/1/1c28707b-115f-11e3-83d5-005056 
 8939ad-OHC000246_013/web/html5/.  
7 Lim Chong Yah, Singapore’s National Wages Council: An Insider’s View, (2013)), 49.  
8 Euston Quah, Luke Nursultan Iuldashov, and Zach Lee, Albert Winsemius and Singapore: Here It Is  
 Going to Happen, (Singapore: World Scientific, 2022), 456.  
9 Lim Chong Yah, Singapore’s National Wages Council: An Insider’s View, (2013), 254.  
10 Ong Pang Boon, “Speech at 48th Annual Dinner of the Singapore Manufacturers’ Association”,  
 June 27, 1980, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/opb19800627s.pdf.  
11 “Don’t sack just to save on wages”, The Straits Times, January 11, 1980.  
12 “Another year of high wage rises”, The Straits Times, June 1, 1980.  
13 Loh Kah Seng and Jeremy Goh, “Semi-archives and Interim Archives: A History of the National  
 Wages Council in Singapore”, Southeast Asian Studies, 2022, 442.  
14 “Showing desired effects”, The Business Times, May 20, 1981.  
15 Goh Chok Tong, “Annual May Day Dinner Speech”, April 30, 2001, https://www.nas.gov 
 .sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/2001043002.htm.  
16 Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, and National University of Singapore, “Singapore’s  
 Productivity Challenge: Part II”, 2014.  
17 “The 1985 Recession: Growth Interrupted”, https://www.sg101.gov.sg/economy/digging- 
 deeper-case-studies/1985/.  
18 Ministry of Trade and Industry, “Economic Survey of Singapore 2009”, February 2010.  
19 Manpower Research and Statistics Department, Ministry of Manpower, Historical   
 Unemployment Rate, January 28, 2021, https://stats.mom.gov.sg/iMAS_Tables/Times%20 
 Series%20Table/mrsd_14_Historical_Unemployment_Rate_28Jan21.xlsx.  
20 Ministry of Trade and Industry, “The Singapore economy: new directions: report of the   
 Economic Committee”, February 1986, 5.  
21 Ministry of Trade and Industry, “The Singapore economy: new directions: report of the   
 Economic Committee”, February 1986, 51.  
22 Lee Kim Chew, “Chok Tong explains the need for policy change”, The Straits Times,   
 December 28, 1985. 
23 Ahmad Osman, “NTUC agrees to CPF cut”, The Straits Times, December 31, 1985.  
24 Budget, Ministry of Labour, Parliament of Singapore, March 25, 1986.  
25 Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy and Tripartite Collective, “Tripartism In Wage Setting And  
 Wage Flexibility, A Singapore Case Study”, 2022.  
26 Paul Jacob, “NWC sets up panel on wage reform”, The Straits Times, March 12, 1986.  
27 The World Bank, “Lessons from Experience with Wage Flexibility in Asia”, August 1990, 15-16.  
28 MOM book interview with Stephen Lee on July 9, 2024. 
29 “Give priority to wage reforms, urges minister”, The Straits Times, July 29, 1987.  
30 The World Bank, “Lessons from Experience with Wage Flexibility in Asia”, August 1990, 18.  
31 MOM book interview with Lee Yock Suan on October 14, 2024.  
32 Lee Hsien Loong, “Speech at the National Tripartite Conference on Wage Restructuring”,  
 January 30, 2004, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/2004013001.htm.
Spotlight 2
1 National Population and Talent Division, Strategy Group, Prime Minister’s Office;   
 Singapore Department of Statistics; Ministry of Home Affairs; Immigration & Checkpoints  
 Authority; Ministry of Manpower, Population in Brief 2024, September 2024,  
 https://www.population.gov.sg/files/media-centre/publications/Population_in_Brief_2024.pdf.  
2 “Number of babies born in 2023 fell to lowest in at least past 50 years: ICA report”,  
 The Straits Times, July 14, 2024.  
3 National Population and Talent Division, Strategy Group, Prime Minister’s Office;   
 Singapore Department of Statistics; Ministry of Home Affairs; Immigration & Checkpoints  
 Authority; Ministry of Manpower, Population in Brief 2024, September 2024. Notes
5 “The 1970s: Upgrading the Economy”, https://www.sg101.gov.sg/economy/growing 
 -our-economy/1970.  
6 National Library Board, “A Quiet Revolution: Women and Work in Industrialising Singapore”,  
 July 1, 2014, https://biblioasia.nlb.gov.sg/vol-10/issue-2/jul-sep-2014/nation-building-women- 
 singapore/. Figures include citizens and permanent residents.  
7 Cheng Siok-Hwa, “The Changing Female Labour Force In Singapore”, https://www.asj.upd 
 .edu.ph/mediabox/archive/ASJ-16-1978/cheng-female-labour-singapore.pdf. Figures include  
 citizens and permanent residents.  
8 Ong Pang Boon, National Productivity Board Bill, Parliament of Singapore, March 23, 1972. 
9 Ong Pang Boon, National Productivity Board Bill, Parliament of Singapore, March 23, 1972. 
10 National Library Board Singapore, “Productivity Campaign (1970s–1990s)”, https://www.  
 nlb.gov.sg/main/article-detail?cmsuuid=429f6f2d-6c74-49c3-a0b4-12643fe7c8db.  
11 “Year-old Teamy is Set for bigger things”, The Straits Times, September 2, 1983.  
12 National Library Board Singapore, “Good Better Best”, https://www.nlb.gov.sg/main/album- 
 detail?cmsuuid=89413301-fe36-416b-9db5-74c501ae8fd2.  
13 National Library Board Singapore, “Productivity Campaign (1970s–1990s)”,  
 https://www.nlb.gov.sg/main/article-detail?cmsuuid=429f6f2d-6c74-49c3-a0b4-12643fe 
 7c8db.  
14 “The 1970s: Upgrading the Economy”, https://www.sg101.gov.sg/economy/growing-our- 
 economy/1970.  
15 “Skills Development Levy Act”, https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Act-Rev/SDLA1979/Published/19920309 
 ?DocDate=19870330&ProvIds=P1II-#pr3-.  
16 “All can apply for aid now”, The Straits Times, December 22, 1979.  
17 National Library Board Singapore, “Skills Development Fund Is Established”, https://www.nlb.  
 gov.sg/main/article-detail?cmsuuid=98e1b55f-093d-4d44-b219-d51f6a38c313.  
18 Jeffrey Hays, “LABOR IN SINGAPORE | Facts and Details”, https://factsanddetails.com/  
 southeast-asia/Singapore/sub5_7c/entry-3784.html.  
19 Mah Bow Tan, “Yeo Hiap Seng National Day Observance Ceremony Speech”, September 25, 1991,  
 https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/mbt19910815s.pdf.  
20 “Large group of workforce left untrained: Yock Suan”, The Straits Times, September 27, 1989.  
21 Factories Bill, Parliament of Singapore, March 28, 1972.  
22 Ministry of Labour, “A Guide To The Workmen’s Compensation Act”, November 1971.  
23 Ministry of Labour, “A Guide To The Factories Act”, 1996.  
24 National Library Board, “Factories Ordinance, 1958”, https://www.nlb.gov.sg/main/article- 
 detail?cmsuuid=a792be89-bc81-4a8d-9519-9252c247c484.  
25 Factories Bill, second reading, Parliament of Singapore, 1972.  
26 Ong Pang Boon, Budget, Ministry of Labour, Parliament of Singapore, March 19, 1974. 
27 Department of Statistics Singapore, Census of Population 1980 Singapore Release No. 4,   
 April 1981, 6. 
28 Jessica Pan and Walter Theseira, “Immigration in Singapore”, World Bank Group,  
 April 2023, 4-5, https://thedocs.worldbank.org/en/doc/080a4bc64cc8a9eb8a2a0e98d 
 97a260a-0050062023/immigration-in-singapore.
Chapter 4
1 Goh Chok Tong, “Official Opening of the Young Presidents’ Organisation”, November 10, 1979,  
 https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/2001043002.htm. 
2 Goh Chok Tong, “Annual May Day Dinner Speech”, April 30, 2001,  
 https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/2001043002.htm. 
3 Lim Chong Yah, Singapore’s National Wages Council: An Insider’s View, (2013), 49. 
4 Foo Choy Peng, Margaret Thomas, “Dutchman behind Singapore Inc. ‘Low-wage policy of  
 the early 1970s was a big mistake’”, Singapore Monitor, February 26, 1984. 
5 Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, and National University of Singapore, “Singapore’s  
 Productivity Challenge: Part II”, 2014.  344 345
Charting Our Path26 MOM book interview with Ong Yen Her on June 11, 2024.  
27 “Central Provident Fund Contribution Rates, 1997 – 2013”, Ministry of Manpower,   
 Manpower Research and Statistics Department, https://stats.mom.gov.sg/Pages/Social- 
 Security-Tables2022.aspx.  
28 Singapore Statutes Online, “Retirement Age (Amendment) Act 1998”, December 29,  
 1998, https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Acts-Supp/49-1998/Published/19981229?DocDate=19981229.  
29 Retirement and Re-employment (Amendment) Bill, Parliament of Singapore, January 9, 2017,  
 https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/sprs3topic?reportid=bill-27.  
30 Lee Hsien Loong, “National Day Rally 2007: City of Possibilities, Home for All”, Prime Minister’s  
 Office, August 19, 2007.  
31 Ministry of Manpower, “Tripartite Guidelines on the Re-employment of Older Employees”.  
32 MOM book interview with Gan Kim Yong on August 21, 2024.  
33 Comprehensive Labour Force Survey (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower, Manpower Research and  
 Statistics Department, 2024), https://stats.mom.gov.sg/iMAS_Tables1/Time-Series-Table/ 
 mrsd_30_Res_ER.xlsx.  
34 Comprehensive Labour Force Survey, (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower, Manpower Research  
 and Statistics Department, 2024).  
35 “Employment rate by age group”, OECD, accessed September 12, 2024, retrieved from   
 https://www.oecd.org/en/data/indicators/employment-rate-by-age-group.html.  
36 Gan Siow Huang, “Speech by Minister of State for Manpower Ms Gan Siow Huang at   
 Committee of Supply 2024”, Ministry of Manpower, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/ 
 speeches/2024/0304-speech-by-mos-gan-siow-huang-at-committee-of-supply-2024#:~:text= 
 Over%209%20in%2010%20senior,to%20retain%20their%20senior%20workers.  
37 Singapore Department of Statistics Singapore, Life Expectancy by Sex. 
38 “Better to help older workers keep working”, Ministry of Manpower, February 7, 2007.   
39 Lee Hsien Loong, “National Day Rally 2007: City of Possibilities, Home for All”,  
 Prime Minister’s Office.  
40 Ng Eng Hen, “Speech at Debate on Ministerial Statement on CPF Reforms and Other Measures  
 for a Secure Retirement”, Ministry of Manpower, September 19, 2007.  
41 MOM book interview with Aubeck Kam on July 24, 2024.  
42 “A Simpler CPF LIFE”, Ministry of Manpower, March 5, 2012. 
43 Tan Chorh Chuan; Joseph Cherian; Sylvia Choo, et al, “Chapter 4: Option for a CPF LIFE Plan  
 with escalating payouts”, Ministry of Manpower, accessed February 4, 2025,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/employment-practices/central-provident-fund/cpf-advisory-panel/ 
 resources.  
44 “Clearing the air on CPF Life: the best annuity in the market”, The Business Times,  
 February 26, 2024.  
45 Skilled for 100? Leveraging an older workforce in Singapore (Singapore: The Economist Intelligence  
 Unit, 2019), 3, https://impact.economist.com/projects/ready-for-100/whitepaper-workplace/.  
46 MOM book interview with Josephine Teo on July 10, 2024. 
47 “Written Answer to PQ on Re-employment of PMETs”, Ministry of Manpower, July 2, 2024,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/parliament-questions-and-replies/2024/0702-written- 
 answer-to-pq-on-re-employment-of-pmets.  
48 MOM book interview with Robert Yap on April 8, 2024.  
49 “Written Answer to PQ on Attainment rates on Basic Healthcare Sum, Basic Retirement Sum,  
 Full Retirement Sum and Enhanced Retirement Sum”, Ministry of Manpower, January 10, 2024,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/parliament-questions-and-replies/2024/0110-written- 
 answer-to-pq-on-attainment-rates-on-brs-frs-ers-bhs.  
50 “Chapter 5: Enabling Seniors to Age Well”, in Forward SG Report (Singapore: Forward SG, 2023),  
 https://www.forwardsingapore.gov.sg/-/media/forwardsg/pagecontent/fsg-reports/chapter- 
 reports/chapter-5_forward-sg-report.pdf.  Notes
4 “Singapore’s total fertility rate hits record low in 2023, falls below 1 for first time”,  
 The Straits Times, February 28, 2024.  
5 Committee of Supply – Head U (Prime Minister’s Office), Parliament of Singapore,   
 February 2, 2024.  
6 Tan See Leng, Speech by Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng at Committee of Supply 2024,  
 Ministry of Manpower, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/speeches/2024/speech-by- 
 minister-at-cos-2024.  
7 Singapore Department of Statistics, Life Expectancy by Sex, accessed September 12, 2024,  
 retrieved from https://tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/M810501. Data for 2023 is   
 preliminary. Note that the figures prior to 1980 refer to total population; “Live long and prosper?  
 A super-aged Singapore society does not have to be a sad one”, The Straits Times,  
 August 26, 2023.  
8 Ministry of Manpower; National Trades Union Congress; Singapore National Employers  
 Federation, Report of the Tripartite Workgroup on Older Workers: Strengthening Support  
 for Older Workers, August 2019, https://www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/  
 press-releases/2019/0819-tripartite-workgroup-on-older-workers-report.pdf.  
9 “Vision of ‘productive longevity’ behind recommendations for older workers: Josephine Teo”,  
 The Straits Times, August 22, 2019.  
10 Singapore Statutes Online, Employment Bill, May 18, 1968, https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Bills-  
 Supp/21-1968/Published/19680518?DocDate=19680518&ProvIds=P1II-#pr15-.  
11 Employment Bill, Parliament of Singapore, July 10, 1968.  
12 Report of the Committee on the Problems of the Aged (Singapore: Ministry of Health, 1984), 21,  
	 https://eservice.nlb.gov.sg/flipviewer/data/booksg_publish/f/f0be2e9a-d4c8-4cea-ad3d-	
 230e5cda4afe/web/html5/index.html?opf=tablet/BOOKSG.xml&launchlogo 
 =tablet/BOOKSG_BrandingLogo_.png&pn=23.  
13 Singapore Department of Statistics, Life Expectancy by Sex. 
14 Ministry of Health, Report of the Committee on the Problems of the Aged, 5. 
15 Ministry of Health, Report of the Committee on the Problems of the Aged, 25.  
16 “Are we geared to getting jobs for the aged?” The Straits Times, March 30, 1984.  
17 Problems of the Aged (Paper Misc. 3 of 1984) , Parliament of Singapore, June 29, 1984.  
18 S. Jayakumar, “Speech by Mr S. Jayakumar, Minister for Labour and Second Minister for Law and  
 Home Affairs, at the Singapore National Employers Federation Fourth Annual Dinner At the  
 Mandarin Hotel on Friday, 28 September 1984 at 8:15pm”, Singapore Government Press Release,  
 September 28, 1984, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/sj19840928s.pdf.  
19 The Singapore Economy: New Directions (Singapore: Ministry of Trade & Industry, 1986), 106,  
 https://www.nlb.gov.sg/main/book-detail?cmsuuid=d08447b5-ce22-4de2-9d6c- 
 89cd9cb95074.  
20 Ministry of Health, Report of the Committee on the Problems of the Aged, 21.  
21 MOM book interview with Lee Boon Yang on May 24, 2024.  
22 MOM book interview with Ong Yen Her on June 11, 2024.  
23 Ong Teng Cheong, “Address By Mr Ong Teng Cheong, Deputy Prime Minister, At The Seventh  
 NTUC Triennial Delegates’ Conference”, Singapore Government Press Release,  
 April 24, 1991, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/otc19910424s.pdf 
24 MOM book interview with Lee Boon Yang on May 24, 2024.  
25 Retirement Age Bill, Parliament of Singapore, April 12, 1993; In 2016, a CPF Advisory Panel  
	 recognised	 that	many	CPF	members	wished	to	have	the	flexibility	 to	access	part	of	their	CPF		
	 savings	 in	a	lump	sum.	However, 	flexibility	 to	make	further	withdrawals	 would	result	in	lower		
 monthly payouts. Having considered different options, the Panel recommended allowing  
 members the option to make withdrawals of up to 20 per cent of their Retirement Account (RA)  
 Savings at the Payout Eligibility Age, inclusive of the amount that can be withdrawn   
 unconditionally from age 55. This was implemented for CPF members who turned 55 from  
 2013 onwards.  346 347
Charting Our Path34 “Singapore’s workforce among world’s most skilled: INSEAD”, Economic Development   
 Board Singapore, November 16, 2023, https://www.edb.gov.sg/en/business-insights/  
 insights/singapores-workforce-among-worlds-most-skilled-insead.html.  
35 MOM book interview with Lee Boon Yang on May 24, 2024.  
36 MOM book interview with Tan Chin Nam on October 17, 2024.
Chapter 6
1 “Foreign Workforce Numbers”, Ministry of Manpower, Manpower Research and Statistics  
 Department, https://www.mom.gov.sg/foreign-workforce-numbers.  
2 “Electronics Industry (Labour Shortage)”, Parliament of Singapore, August 31, 1987,  
 https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/topic?reportid=013_19870831_S0005_T0020.  
3 Singapore Department of Statistics, “Births And Fertility Rates”, retrieved from   
 https://tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/M810091.  
4  S Jayakumar, Minister for Home Affairs, Parliament of Singapore, “Liberalization Of   
 Rules For Permanent Residence”, August 4, 1989, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/  
 topic?reportid=008_19890804_S0008_T0018.  
5 Anna Teo, “BG Yeo outlines strategy for growth”, The Straits Times, October 5, 1990.  
6 “People take centrestage in plan”, The Business Times, October 14, 1991.  
7 “New EDB division to attract overseas talent”, The Straits Times, September 30, 1991.  
8 Ven Sreenivasan, “EDB aims to boost quality of workforce,” The Business Times, January 7, 1994.  
9 Goh Chok Tong, National Day Rally, August 24, 1997, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/ 
 data/pdfdoc/199708240e.htm.  
10 Goh Chok Tong, “National Day Rally”, August 24, 1997.  
11 MOM Heritage Corner, 2020.  
12 Ministry of Manpower, Department of Manpower Research and Statistics, “Resident   
 Unemployment Rate”, https://stats.mom.gov.sg/iMAS_Tables1/Time-Series-Table 
 /mrsd_11_Resident_unemployment_rate_n_number.xlsx.  
13 Lee Hsien Loong, “Budget Statement 2004”, February 27, 2004. 
14 Lee Hsien Loong, “Budget Statement 2004”, February 27, 2004. 
15 Ng Eng Hen, Budget Debate, Head S, Ministry of Manpower, March 19, 2004,  
 https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/topic?reportid=005_20040319_S0004_T0002. 
16 Ng Eng Hen, Budget Debate, Head S, Ministry of Manpower, March 19, 2004.  
17 “MOM expands quota for S-pass workers,” The New Paper, November 29, 2007.  
18 Lim Hng Kiang, “Strategy for Growth,” Ministry of Trade and Industry, March 19, 2008,   
 https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/topic?reportid=005_20040319_S0004_T0002. 
19 Ministry of Manpower, Department of Manpower Research and Statistics, “Gross Monthly  
 Income From Employment (Including Employer Cpf) Of Full-Time Employed Residents,”  
 https://stats.mom.gov.sg/iMAS_Tables1/Time-Series-Table/mrsd_43_FT_Res_income.xlsx.  
20 Ministry of Manpower, Department of Manpower Research and Statistics, “Resident   
 Unemployment Rate and Number,” https://stats.mom.gov.sg/iMAS_Tables1/Time-Series- 
 Table/mrsd_11_Resident_unemployment_rate_n_number.xlsx.  
21 Brenda Yeoh, “Singapore: hungry for migrant workers at all skill levels”, Migration Policy  
 Institute, March 2, 2017.  
22 Brenda Yeoh, “Singapore: hungry for migrant workers at all skill levels”, March 2, 2017.  
23 Wong M.Y, “Levy on Hiring of Migrant Workers”, The Business Times, March 29, 1982.  
24 Wong M.Y, “Levy on Hiring of Migrant Workers”, The Business Times, March 29, 1982.  
25 Report of the Economic Committee, The Singapore Economy: New Directions, 1986, 109.  
26 Lee Hsien Loong, Minister of State for Trade and Industry, Parliament of Singapore, August  
 31, 1987, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/topic?reportid=013_19870831_S0005_T0020.  
27 Lee Hsien Loong, Minister of State for Trade and Industry, Parliament of Singapore,  
 August 31, 1987.  
28 MOM book interview with Lee Boon Yang on May 24, 2024.Notes
51 Appeals to CPF Board for Inclusion in Silver Support Scheme, Parliament of Singapore,   
 September 13, 2016, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/sprs3topic?reportid=oral-answer-1338.  
52 “Looking after seniors with the Silver Support Scheme”, Central Provident Fund Board, accessed  
 on February 4, 2025.  
53 “Parliament: Over 152,000 seniors received Silver Support payouts last year”,  
 The Straits Times, February 5, 2018.  
54 Lee Hsien Loong, “National Day Rally 2023”, Prime Minister’s Office, August 20, 2023,  
 https://www.pmo.gov.sg/Newsroom/National-Day-Rally-2023.
Chapter 5
1 Goh Chok Tong and Lorraine Hahn, Transcript of Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong’s Interview  
 with Ms Lorraine Hahn of CNN Programme “TALKASIA”, as Broadcast on January 24, 2004,  
 accessed on February 17, 2025, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/2004012  
 402.htm. 
2 “1986 to 1996: Rebounding Into a Decade of Growth”, https://www.sg101.gov.sg/economy/ 
 growing-our-economy/1986.  
3 “The birth of MOM”, The Straits Times, February 26, 1998.  
4 Singapore Government Media Release “Ministry of Manpower”, https://www.nas.gov.sg/ 
 archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/1998022502.htm.  
5 Singapore Government Media Release “Ministry of Manpower”, https://www.nas.gov.sg/ 
 archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/1998022502.htm.  
6 Singapore Government Media Release “Ministry of Manpower”, https://www.nas.gov.sg/ 
 archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/1998022502.htm.  
7 MOM book interview with Moses Lee on October 1, 2024.  
8  MOM book interview with Lee Boon Yang on May 24, 2024.  
9  MOM book interview with Lee Boon Yang on May 24, 2024.  
10  MOM book interview with Ong Yen Her on June 11, 2024.  
11 “Ministry of People Power?”, The Straits Times, February 28, 1998. 
12 “Ministry of People Power?”, The Straits Times, February 28, 1998. 
13  MOM book interview with Lee Boon Yang on May 24, 2024.  
14  Ministry of Manpower, “Manpower 21: Singapore’s National Manpower Plan”, June 4, 1998,  
 https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/1998060404.htm.  
15  MOM book interview with Tan Chin Nam on October 17, 2024.  
16 National Library Board Singapore, “Thinking Schools, Learning Nation”, https://www.nlb.  
 gov.sg/main/article-detail?cmsuuid=b6b1620a-eb21-4f0e-90a4-9e80ec70d8dd.  
17  “Blueprint for globally competitive workforce”, The Straits Times, June 5, 1998.  
18  MOM book interview with Lee Boon Yang on May 24, 2024.  
19 Manpower 21: Vision of a Talent Capital (Ministry of Manpower, August 1999), 1.  
20 Lee Boon Yang,  Debate on President’s Address, Parliament of Singapore, October 12, 1999.  
21  Manpower 21: Vision of a Talent Capital, 11.  
22 Manpower 21: Vision of a Talent Capital, 11.  
23 Manpower 21: Vision of a Talent Capital, 15. 
24 Manpower 21: Vision of a Talent Capital, 1.  
25 MOM book interview with Tan Chin Nam on October 17, 2024.  
26 Manpower 21: Vision of a Talent Capital, 2.  
27 Manpower 21: Vision of a Talent Capital, 2-3.  
28 Lee Boon Yang, Lifelong Learning Endowment Fund Bill, Parliament of Singapore,  
  January 12, 2001.  
29 Manpower 21: Vision of a Talent Capital, 3. 
30 Manpower 21: Vision of a Talent Capital, 3. 
31 Manpower 21: Vision of a Talent Capital, 4.  
32 Manpower 21: Vision of a Talent Capital, 4.  
33 Lee Boon Yang, Debate on President’s Address, Parliament of Singapore, October 12, 1999.  348 349
Charting Our Path6 Ministry of Manpower, “Changes In Employment By Sector, (Compared To The Previous  
 Period)”, last updated September 27, 2024, retrieved from https://tablebuilder.singstat 
 .gov.sg/table/TS/M183901. See also Employment Trend and Structure (Singapore: Ministry  
 of Manpower, Manpower Research and Statistics Department Singapore, May 2004),  
 https://stats.mom.gov.sg/iMAS_PdfLibrary/mrsd-Employment-Trend-Structure.pdf.  
7 Ministry of Manpower, “Recommendations of the Tripartite Panel on Retrenched   
 Workers”, June 26, 1998, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc 
 /1998062607.htm. 
8 Singapore Department of Statistics, Ministry of Manpower, Changes in Value Added Per  
 Worker in Chained (2015) Dollars, by Industry (SSIC 2020), last updated November 22,   
 2024, retrieved from https://tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/M015701. 
9 Economic Survey of Singapore, Third Quarter (1998) (Singapore: Ministry of Trade and   
 Industry, November 1998). 
10 The Committee on Singapore’s Competitiveness was set up by the Ministry of Trade  
 and Industry in 1997 to review Singapore’s long-term competitiveness. In November 1998,  
 it officially released a report recommending a cost-cutting package to cut business costs  
 to the tune of S$10 million a year – about 7 per cent of Singapore’s GDP. See “The Report of  
 the Committee on Singapore’s Competitiveness”, November 11, 1998, https://www.nas.   
 gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/1998111102.htm.  
11 “National Wages Council’s Revised Wage Guidelines, 1998”, Employment (Revised  
 Wage Guidelines) Notification 1998, Singapore Statutes Online, https://sso.agc.gov.sg 
 /SL/S617-1998?ProvIds=Sc-#top.  
12 MOM book interview with Lee Boon Yang on May 24, 2024.  
13 In 1998, the total CPF contribution rate was 40 per cent for workers aged 55 and below,   
 and even lower for older workers.  
14 More than half a million Singaporeans were servicing their mortgages using CPF.  
 Their housing loans were also generally larger in 1998 compared to during the 1986   
 recession. Besides being used for housing, CPF was also now being tapped for education  
 and investments. See Irene Ng, “Will Workers Buy a Cut in Both Their CPF and Wages?”,  
 The Straits Times, October 10, 1998. 
15 Committee on Singapore’s Competitiveness, Parliament of Singapore, November 24, 1998,  
 https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/topic?reportid=016_19981124_S0002_T0004. Government  
 bridging loans, also offered during the 1986 recession, were short-term loans at a  
 concessionary rate.  
16 Lim Chong Yah, “The National Wages Council (NWC) and Macroeconomic Management  
 in Singapore”, in Crisis Management & Public Policy: Singapore’s Approach to Economic   
 Resilience, eds. Sng Hui Ying and Chia Wai Mun (Singapore: World Scientific, 2011), 15.  
17 Interview with TCS, December 23, 1998. See “Labour to continue proactive role in 1999”,  
 NTUC News, January 8, 1999, 4.  
18 Jason Leow, “Move to Service Job Skills”,  The Straits Times, September 8, 1998. See also Ministry  
 of Manpower, Manpower Research and Statistics Department, “Employed Residents by Highest  
 Qualification Attained and Sex”, retrieved from https://stats.mom.gov.sg/Pages/Employment 
 TimeSeries.aspx.  
19 Wendy Tan, “More May Lose their Jobs in 1999”, The Straits Times, July 18, 1998.  
20 Skills Development Fund, Parliament of Singapore, June 1, 1998, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/  
 search/#/topic?reportid=067_19980601_S0009_T0067.  
21 Retrenched Workers (Retraining for alternative jobs), Parliament of Singapore, March 9,   
 1998, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/topic?reportid=003_19980309_S0004_T0007.  
22 Singapore’s Economic Performance and Off-Budget Measures (Statement by the Minister   
 for Finance), Parliament of Singapore, June 29, 1998, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/  
 topic?reportid=027_19980629_S0003_T0016.  Notes
Spotlight 3
1 “‘Public Service for the 21st Century’ (PS21) is launched”, National Library Board, n.d.,  
 https://www.nlb.gov.sg/main/article-detail?cmsuuid=d1c30f1c-074b-4507-b819-69cccbe8f713.  
2 MOM book interview with Penny Han on September 23, 2024.  
3 MOM book interview with Penny Han on September 23, 2024.  
4 MOM book interview with Penny Han on September 23, 2024.  
5 MOM book interview with Penny Han on September 23, 2024.  
6 MOM book interview with Penny Han on September 23, 2024.  
7 Lee U-Wen, “Outsourcing saves Govt $34.6m a year”, TODAY, December 5, 2006.  
8 MOM book interview with Penny Han on September 23, 2024.  
9  Gan Kim Yong, “Speech at Official Opening of The Employment Pass Services Centre”,   
 January 12, 2010.  
10  Gan Kim Yong, “Speech at Groundbreaking Ceremony of the Ministry of Manpower Bendemeer  
 Office”, January 12, 2010.  
11 “Government Standard of Excellence 2016,” n.d.  
12 “MOM accolades,” n.d., https://www.mom.gov.sg/about-us/accolades.  
13 “Customer Experience Asia Excellence Award Winners announced”, August 10, 2018.  
14 Penny Han, Kenneth Chan, “Better, Faster, Cheaper: Service Transformation and Channel  
 Migration at the Ministry of Manpower”,  ETHOS, April 2007, https://knowledge.csc.gov.  
 sg/ethos-issue-04/better-faster-cheaper-and-channel-migration-manpower.  
15 Ministry of Manpower, “United Nations Honours MOM’s Work Pass Division with Public  
 Service Award”, May 26, 2006, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/   
 pdfdoc/20060526989.pdf.  
16 “A Great Workforce, A Great Workplace: Singapore Quality Award Executive Summary Report”,  
 Ministry of Manpower, 2017, 54.  
17 “Piloting agile for WINS: Ministry of Manpower’s redesign of its foreign domestic worker  
 work permit system”, Civil Service College, Song Hsi Ching, 2020, 10.  
18 “Service Design Network”, n.d.  
19 Report: Excellence in Service (ExiS) Blueprint (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower, 2015).  
20 Report: Excellence in Service (ExiS) Blueprint (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower, 2015).  
21 MOM book interview with Penny Han on September 23, 2024.
Chapter 7
1 “Asian Financial Crisis: Causes, Response, Lessons Learned”, Investopedia.  
2 The retrenchment numbers of 14,440 in the first half of 1998, and 9,784 for all of 1997, pertain  
 only to retrenched permanent employees. See Ministry of Manpower, Retrenched Permanent  
 Employees By Industry (SSIC 2020) And Occupational Group, retrieved from https://  
 tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/M183881. See also “Speech by Dr Lee Boon Yang Minister  
 for Manpower at the NTUC Ordinary Delegates’ Conference”, October 29, 1998, https://www. 
 nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/1998102902.htm.  
3 Labour Market Survey, Manpower Research & Statistics Department, Ministry of Manpower;  
 Ministry of Manpower, Retrenched Employees By Industry (SSIC 2020) And Occupational  
 Group, retrieved from https://tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/M183911.  
4 Employment Trend and Structure (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower, Manpower   
 Research and Statistics Department Singapore, May 2004), https://stats.mom.gov.sg 
 /iMAS_PdfLibrary/mrsd-Employment-Trend-Structure.pdf.  
5 Manpower Research and Statistics Department, Ministry of Manpower, “Resident   
 Unemployment Rate and Number”, released on December 9, 2024, https://stats.mom.gov.sg/ 
 Pages/UnemploymentTimeSeries.aspx.  350 351
Charting Our Path42 MOM interview with Stephen Lee on July 9, 2024. 
43 Report on Wage Practices 2023 (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower, Manpower Research and  
 Statistics Department, June 2024), https://stats.mom.gov.sg/iMAS_PdfLibrary/mrsd-  
 report-on-wage-practices-2023.pdf; and Wage Restructuring Outcome (As at 30 June 2005)  
 (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower, Manpower Research and Statistics Department,   
 February 2006), https://stats.mom.gov.sg/iMAS_PdfLibrary/mrsd-WRS2005feb.pdf. See also  
 Survey on Annual Wage Changes, Manpower Research and Statistics Department, MOM.  
44 MOM book interview with Lim Boon Heng on April 3, 2024.  
45 “Singapore is First East Asian Country to Slip into Recession”, National Library Board, accessed  
 September 22, 2024, https://www.nlb.gov.sg/main/article-detail?cmsuuid=3cacf256-82cc- 
 4776-b7f8-83757723b502. 
46 See Singapore Department of Statistics, Contribution To Growth In Gross Domestic Product In  
 Chained (2015) Dollars, By Industry (SSIC 2020), retrieved from https://tablebuilder.singstat.  
 gov.sg/table/TS/M015671, last updated November 22, 2024; and https://tablebuilder.singstat.  
 gov.sg/table/TS/M015741, last updated May 23, 2024. 
47 Lee Hsien Loong, “May Day Rally”, Prime Minister’s Office, May 1, 2009, https://www.pmo.gov.  
 sg/Newsroom/transcript-prime-minister-lee-hsien-loongs-may-day-rally-speech-2009.  
48 Lee Hsien Loong, “Valedictory Letter from PM Lee Hsien Loong to Mr Lim Swee Say”, Prime  
 Minister’s Office, May 1, 2018, https://www.pmo.gov.sg/Newsroom/valedictory-letter-pm-lee- 
 hsien-loong-mr-lim-swee-say.  
49 The Guidelines were subsequently updated in May 2009.  
50 See also Tan Chung Lee, The Story of NWC: 40 Years of Tripartite Commitment and Partnership  
 (Singapore: Straits Times Press, 2013), 148-51.  
51 Ministry of Manpower, “Report On Wages In Singapore, 2008 and Singapore Yearbook of  
 Manpower Statistics, 2009”, June 30, 2009, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/speeches/ 
 record-details/803c63d9-115d-11e3-83d5-0050568939ad. 
52  Lydia Lim, “Cash to employers lessens wage burden, saves jobs”, The Straits Times,   
 January 23, 2009. To fund the Jobs Credit Scheme and other relief measures in the   
 government’s S$20.5 billion “Resilience Package”, Singapore dipped into its reserves for  
 the first time, drawing down S$4 billion. The sum was returned in full in 2011. 
53 MOM book interview with Lim Swee Say on April 22, 2024.  
54 MOM book interview with Loh Khum Yean on July 11, 2024.  
55 Tharman Shanmugaratnam, “Budget Speech 2009”, January 22, 2009, https://www.   
 mof.gov.sg/docs/default-source/default-document-library/singapore-budget/budget-  
 archives/2009/fy2009_budget_statement.pdf. The employer’s CPF contribution rate   
 was then 14.5 per cent for workers aged 50 and below. See “Central Provident Fund Rates,  
 1997–2018”, in Singapore Yearbook of Manpower Statistics 2018, https://stats.mom.gov.   
 sg/iMAS_Tables/YearBook/YearBook_2018/mrsd_2018YearBook_SStableG_1.xlsx.  
56 Gan Kim Yong, “Speech at Ministry of Manpower National Day Observance Ceremony 2009”,  
 August 7, 2009.  
57 See Ministry of Manpower, Retrenched Employees By Industry (SSIC 2020) And Occupational  
 Group, retrieved from https://tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/M183911; and Robin Chan,  
 “Credit Suisse predicts 300,000 jobs on the line here”, The Straits Times, January 21, 2009.  
58 Ministry of Manpower, “Government Commits $600 Million to Spur Employers and Workers  
 to Raise Manpower Capabilities”, November 21, 2008; “Fact Sheet on SPUR Funding for   
 Absentee Payroll”, https://www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/manpower-resources/ 
 factsheets-circulars/annex-a---factsheet-on-spur-funding-for-absentee-payroll.pdf. The  
 absentee payroll rate was raised to a maximum of 90 per cent (capped at S$10 per hour) in May  
 2009, with mandatory top-ups for training outside working hours. The rate was lower when the  
 scheme began in 2008.  
59 MOM interview with Lim Swee Say on April 22, 2024.  
60 MOM interview with Gan Kim Yong on August 21, 2024.  Notes
23 Ahmad Osman, “Retraining: NTUC Targets 15 Sectors”, The Straits Times, July 31, 1998. 
24 Audrey Tan, “Govt to Increase Funding for Skills Devt: Boon Heng”, The Business Times,   
 October 1, 1998.  
25 Ministry of Manpower, “3rd Quarter Labour Market Report 1998 and Update on the ‘4R’  
 Strategy Manpower Action Plan”, December 11, 1998, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/ 
 data/pdfdoc/1998121102.htm. The “4R” plan aimed to improve workers’ employment and  
 employability amid the slowdown. 
26 “Fund for workers to upgrade skills”, The Straits Times, September 30, 1998.  
27 Audrey Tan, “S’pore Has 3-5 Year Period to Streak Ahead: PM Goh”, The Business Times,   
 February 12, 1999; Ministry of Manpower, “3rd Quarterly Labour Market Report 1998 and  
 Update on the ‘4R’ Strategy Manpower Action Plan”, December 11, 1998, https://www.nas.  
 gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/1998121102.htm. 
28 Tackling the Economic Downturn (Statement by the Deputy Prime Minister), Parliament of   
 Singapore, October 12, 2001, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/topic?reportid=003_20011012_  
 S0002_T0003. After achieving 9 per cent growth in 2000, Singapore’s economy contracted  
 by 1.1 per cent in 2001, a sharp reversal that was attributed mainly to a fall in external   
 demand. See Singapore Department of Statistics, Contribution to Growth in Gross Domestic  
 Product in Chained (2015) Dollars, by Industry (SSIC 2020), retrieved from https://tablebuilder.  
 singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/M015741; and Ministry of Trade and Industry, “Performance of the  
 Singapore Economy in 2001”, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/361- 
 ess_2001ann_pr.pdf.  
29 MOM book interview with Ng Eng Hen on September 26, 2024.  
30 Singapore Department of Statistics, Gross Domestic Product In Chained (2015) Dollars,  
 By Industry (SSIC 2020), retrieved from http://www.tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table 
 /TS/M015661. 
31 Richard Hu,  Annual Budget Statement, Parliament of Singapore, February 25, 2000,   
 https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/topic?reportid=021_20000225_S0003_T0003.  
32 MOM interview with Stephen Lee on July 9, 2024. 
33 MOM book interview with Ong Yen Her on June 11, 2024.  
34 “Recommendations of the National Wages Council for Annual Wage Adjustment 1999   
 Guidelines”, Employment (Recommendations for Annual Wage Adjustment) Notification 1999,  
 Singapore Statutes Online, https://sso.agc.gov.sg/SL/EmA1968-EmA1968-S300-1999?DocDate 
 =19990701&ValidDate=19990701&ProvIds=Sc-; Ministry of Information and the Arts,   
 “Government Accepts 1999 NWC Wage Guidelines”, https://www.nas.gov.sg/ archivesonline/ 
 data/pdfdoc/1999280504.htm; Ministry of Manpower, “Government Accepts National   
 Wages Council’s Recommendations for 2000-2001”, May 30, 2000, https://www.nas.gov.sg/ 
 archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/2000053001.htm.  
35 MOM book interview with Lim Boon Heng on April 3, 2024.  
36 The Economic Review Committee, headed by then-Deputy Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong,  
 was formed in December 2001 with the aim of coming up with a blueprint to restructure  
 Singapore’s economy.  
37 Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts, “National Wages Council (NWC)  
 Wage Guidelines for July 2003 to June 2004”, May 21, 2003, https://www.nas.gov.sg/  
 archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/2003052102.htm. 
38 Wage Restructuring Outcome (As at December 2006) (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower,   
 Manpower Research and Statistics Department Singapore, May 2007), https://stats.mom. 
 gov.sg/iMAS_PdfLibrary/mrsd-WRS2006dec.pdf.  
39 Lee Hsien Loong, “Keynote Address by Deputy Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong at the National  
 Tripartite Conference on Wage Restructuring”, January 30, 2004, https://www.nas.gov.sg/ 
 archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/2004013001.htm. 
40 MOM interview with Yong Ying-I on April 19, 2024.  
41 Sue-Ann Chia, “Wage Reform – Still a Way to Go”, The Straits Times, July 3, 2004. 352 353
Charting Our Path13 “Speech by Mr Lee Hsien Loong, Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, at the Tripartite  
 Forum on Job Re-Creation”, March 5, 2005, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/  
 data/pdfdoc/20050305993.htm. NTUC and WDA helped with job redesign efforts in the  
 mid-2000s. The NTUC’s Jobs Re-creation Programme – parked under the Re-employment  
 Assistance Programme (2004-2006) – would help companies raise their productivity and  
 improve their working conditions to make them more attractive to Singaporeans. The   
 WDA’s Job Redesign Incentive Scheme would subsidise some of those costs.  
14 It replaced the National Skills Recognition System.  
15 “Singapore”, in Global Inventory of Regional and National Qualifications Frameworks,   
 Vol II: National and Regional Cases (Hamburg: UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning,   
 European Training Foundation, European Centre for the Development of Vocational   
 Learning, 2015), 319-22.  
16 Head S - Ministry of Manpower, Parliament of Singapore, March 4, 2008, https://sprs.parl.gov.  
 sg/search/#/topic?reportid=003_20080304_S0003_T0003.  
17 Head S - Ministry of Manpower, Parliament of Singapore, March 4, 2008.  
18 Ministry of Manpower, Manpower Research and Statistics Department, “Employed   
 Residents by Highest Qualification Attained and Sex”, released January 31, 2024, retrieved  
 from https://stats.mom.gov.sg/Pages/EmploymentTimeSeries.aspx.  
19  The Institute for Adult Learning was incorporated under SkillsFuture Singapore in 2016,  
 and became an autonomous institute of the Singapore University of Social Sciences from  
 April 2019. See “Factsheet on the Institute for Adult Learning”, Institute for Adult Learning  
 Singapore, September 2019, https://www.suss.edu.sg/docs/default-source/contentdoc/  
 comms/ial_factsheet_sep-2019.pdf?sfvrsn=4978db07_2.  
20 WDA’s 2010 Survey on Outcomes of WSQ training.  
21 “Labour Mobility: Workforce Skills Qualification (WSQ) Enhances Job Mobility”,  
 Ministry of Manpower, May 31, 2010. 
22 Employment and Employability Institute, “Opening of Devan Nair Institute for   
 Employment and Employability on 1 May 2014”, https://www.e2i.com.sg/news/opening- 
 of-devan-nair-institute-for-employment-and-employability-on-1-may-2014.  
23 MOM book interview with Diana Chia on September 13, 2024.  
24 Lee Hsien Loong, “National Day Rally 2014”, Prime Minister’s Office, August 17, 2014,   
 www.pmo.gov.sg/Newsroom/national-day-rally-2014.  
25 The idea of having individual training accounts for workers had long been raised by the   
 labour movement. The Economic Review Committee made another pitch for it in 2002.  
26 Tharman Shanmugaratnam, “SUSS 14th Anniversary Lunch”, April 25, 2019.  
27 MOM book interview with Loh Khum Yean on July 11, 2024.  
28 MOM book interview with Tan Hee Teck on October 7, 2024.  
29 Report on the Survey on Awareness and Adoption of Singapore Workforce Skills Qualifications  
 (WSQ) by Companies 2013. See also WDA’s Awareness and Adoption Survey. See “More   
 Adopting Workforce Skills Qualifications Training: WDA Survey”, TODAY, June 11, 2014; and  
 Abigail Kor, “Survey Measures Impact of Training on Firms, Trainees”, The Business Times,  
 February 11, 2010. 
30 MOM book interview with Josephine Teo on July 10, 2024. 
31 SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Bill, second reading, Parliament of Singapore, August 16, 2016.  
32 SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Bill, second reading, August 16, 2016.  
33 Singapore Workforce Development Agency (Amendment) Bill, second reading, Parliament 
 of Singapore, August 16, 2016, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/sprs3topic?reportid=bill-214.  
34 MOM book interview with Aubeck Kam on July 24, 2024.Notes
61 MOM interview with Leo Yip on April 11, 2024.  
62 Ministry of Manpower, “Factsheet on Tripartite Upturn Strategy Teams (TRUST Teams)”,  
 April 29, 2009, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/20090506005/  
	 factsheet%20on%20trust%20teams%20-%20final.pdf;	 Goh	Chin	Lian,	“Non-Unionised	 SMEs	  
 to Get More Govt Help”, The Straits Times, September 2, 2009.  
63 MOM interview with Stephen Lee on July 9, 2024. 
64 Singapore Department of Statistics, Contribution To Growth In Gross Domestic Product In  
 Chained (2015) Dollars, By Industry (SSIC 2020), retrieved from https://tablebuilder.   
 singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/M015741; Taiwan Statistical Data Book 2011 (Taipei: Council for   
 Economic Planning and Development, July 2011); “GDP growth (annual %)”, World Bank Group.  
65 Ministry of Manpower, “Singapore Shares Its Tripartite Experiences at the 99th Session of  
 the International Labour Conference”, June 11, 2010.  
66 MOM interview with Stephen Lee on July 9, 2024.
Chapter 8
1 “Speech by Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong at the Official Launch of Singapore Workforce  
 Development Agency”, September 17, 2003, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/ 
 pdfdoc/2003091702.htm.  
2 “Resident Unemployment Rate and Number”, Ministry of Manpower, Manpower Research  
 and Statistics Department, https://stats.mom.gov.sg/Pages/UnemploymentTimeSeries.aspx.  
3 Singapore Workforce Development Agency Bill, second reading, Parliament of Singapore,   
 August 15, 2003, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/topic?reportid=011_20030815_S0002_T0002.  
4 “Speech by Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong at the Official Launch of Singapore Workforce  
 Development Agency”, September 17, 2003, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/ 
 pdfdoc/2003091702.htm.  
5 Sue-Ann Chia and Rebecca Lee, “Agency Gets $320m to Help Workers”, The Straits Times,  
 September 18, 2003.  
6 Singapore Workforce Development Agency Bill, second reading, Parliament of Singapore,   
 August 15, 2003; and “Formation of Singapore Workforce Development Agency”, Ministry  
 of Manpower, September 1, 2003, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/ 
 2003090102.htm.  
7 “Speech by Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong at the Official Launch of Singapore Workforce  
 Development Agency”, September 17, 2003, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline 
 /data/pdfdoc/2003091702.htm. This did not last for long, as the Skills Redevelopment   
 Programme ended on April 30, 2008. It was replaced by other CET initiatives such as the  
 WDA’s Singapore Workforce Skills Qualifications (WSQ) system.  
8 Singapore Workforce Development Agency Bill, second reading, Parliament of Singapore,   
 August 15, 2003.  
9 MOM book interview with Ng Eng Hen on September 26, 2024.  
10 MOM book interview with Leo Yip on April 11, 2024.  
11 Singapore Workforce Development Agency Bill, second reading, Parliament of Singapore,   
 August 15, 2003. See also SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Bill, second reading, Parliament of  
 Singapore, August 16, 2016, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/sprs3topic?reportid=bill-215.  
12 Lower-skilled workers were not the only ones on the chopping block. Nearly 30 per cent  
 of the 9,790 workers retrenched in the first half of 2001 were professionals, managers,   
 executives and technicians (PMETs). See Labour Market Survey, Manpower Research  
 & Statistics Department, MOM, “Retrenched Employees by Industry and Occupational   
 Group”, retrieved from https://stats.mom.gov.sg/iMAS_Tables1/Time-Series-Table/  
 mrsd_28_retrench_by_ind_and_occ_grp.xlsx. 354 355
Charting Our Path20 Lee Hsien Loong, “Speech at the Launch of The National Workplace Safety and Health  
Campaign 2008 and The 
Workplace Safety and Health Council”, April 29, 2008, 
 https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/2008042
9997.htm 
21 MOM book interview with Ho Siong Hin on July 4, 2024. 
22 “Reforming our WSH Landscape (2005-2014)”, in Fifty Years, One Vision, 112; MOM 
 book interview with 
Ho Siong Hin on July 4, 2024. 
23 Workplace Safety and Health Profile (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower, 2008), 19, 20,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/safety-health/reports
-stats/wsh-   
 profile/wsh-profile-2008.pdf.  
24 MOM book interview with Ho Siong Hin on July 4, 2024. 
25 MOM book interview with Ho Siong Hin on July 4, 2024. 
26 “Reforming our WSH Landscape (2 005-2014)”, in Fifty Years, One Vision, 105; 110. 
27 See “Reforming our WSH Landscape (2005-2014)”, in Fifty Years, One Vision, 112-13; 125; Acts  
Supplement, Workplace 
Safety and Health (Amendment) Act 2011, Parliament  
of Singapore, April 2
9, 2011, https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Acts-Supp/18-2011/Published 
/20110425170 000?DocDate=20110425170000; and 
Ministry of Manpower, “Ratification of  
International Labour Organisation (ILO) 
Convention C187 cements Singapore’s Commitment  
to Workplace Safety and 
Health”, June 11, 2012, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/  
pdfdoc/20120618006/mom-wshc-ilo_media_
release_on_ilo_ratification_of_c187_(110612).pdf.  
28 Workplace Safety and Health Report, 2014 (Singapore: WSH Institute, 2015), 3,  https://
www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/safety-health/reports-stats/wsh-national- 
statistics/wsh-national-stats-2014.pdf. 
29 Workplace Safety and Health Report, 2014 (Singapore: WSH Institute, 2015), 6. 
30 “About the Vision Zero Movement”, Workplace Safety and Health Council, https://www. tal.sg/ 
wshc/about-us/vision-zero . 
31 MOM book interview with Ho Siong Hin on July 4, 2024. 
32 Fifty Years, One Vision , 116-17; and “Total Workplace Safety and Health Programme”, WSH 
Council, accessed January 6, 2025, https://www.tal.sg/wshc/programmes/total- 
workplace-safety-and-health. 
33 WSH 2028 (Singapore: WSH Council, MOM, 2 019), 30-36. 
34 Ministry of Manpower, “Enhanced Meas ures to Reduce Heat Stress for Outdoor Workers”,  
October 23, 2023, 
https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press-releases/2023/1024-  
 enhanced-measures-to-reduce-heat-stress-for-outdoor-workers; Tripartite 
Advisory on   
Mental Health and Well-being at 
Workplaces (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower, National  
Trades Union Congress, and 
Singapore National Employers Federation, 2023), https://   
 www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/covid-19/advisories/tripartite-advisory-on-  
 mental-well-being-at-workplaces.pdf.  
35 WSH 2028 (Singapore: WSH Council, MOM, 2019), 4. 
36 Work Injury Compensation Bill, second reading, Parliament of Singapore, September 3, 2019,  
https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/s
earch/#/sprs3topic?reportid=bill-381. The new Workplace Injury  
Compensation Act also allowed for 
faster processing of workplace injury compensation claims,  
among other changes. 
37 See also “Welcome Remarks by Mr Silas Sng at SISO Webinar”, April 26, 2022, Workplace  
 Safety and Health Council, 
https://www.tal.sg/wshc/media/speeches/2022/welcome-   
 remarks-by-mr-silas-sng-at-siso-webinar. 
38 In 2022, the workplace fatality rate was 1.3 per 100,000 workers. 
39 Ministry of Manpower, “Safety Accountability, Focus and Empowerment (SAFE) measures”,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/workplace-safety-and-health/s
afe-measures.  
40 Excluding the year 2020 which coincided with the COVID-19 lockdown. In 2023, the  
 workplace major injury rate 
also fell to its lowest in a decade. 
41 Workplace Safety and Health Report, 2023 (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower 2024), 5. 
42 Christine Tan and Gracia Yap, “Workplace deaths, injuries at record low in 2023, but  
manufacturing sector still a concern:
 MOM”, The Straits Times, March 27, 2024.Notes
Spotlight 4
1 Richard Magnus, Teh Cee Ing, and Lau Joo Ming, Report of the Committee of Inquiry Into the  
Incident at the MRT 
Circle Line Worksite That Led to the Collapse of the Nicoll Highway on 20 April  
2004, Vol 1 (Part 
I), May 2005, submitted to the Minister for Manpower, Singapore. See also  
Arti Mulchand and Karamjit Kaur,
 “Tragedy Underground”, The Straits Times, April 21, 2004;  
“Saved by Foreman’s Sixth Sens
e”, The Straits Times, April 22, 2004; and “Nicoll Highway Cave-  
In”, Singapore Civil Defence 
Force, https://www.scdf.gov.sg/home/about-scdf/media-room/  
 major-local-incidents#ba40c11a-b464-4db2-b8dd-4710caff55bc.  
2 Louisa Tang, “Friday’s Fatal Mishap Among Worst Worksite Accidents Since 2004  
Nicoll Highway Tragedy”, TODAY,
 July 15, 2017; Workplace Safety and Health Bill, second  
reading, Parliament of Singapore,
 January 17, 2006, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/  
 topic?reportid=019_20060117_S0003
_T0005.  
3 MOM book interview with Ho Siong Hin on July 4, 2024. 
4 Ministry of Manpower, “A New Occupational Safety and Health Framework Statement  
by Dr Ng Eng Hen,
 Minister for Manpower”, March 10, 2005, https://www.nas.gov.sg/  
archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/20050310996.pdf. Japan’s occupational 
fatality rate was  
2.6 per 100,000 
workers in 2002. 
5 Workplace Safety and Health Bill, second reading, Parliament of Singapore, January 17,  
 2006, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#
/topic?reportid=019_20060117_S0003_T0005. 
6 MOM book interview with Ho Siong Hin on July 4, 2024. 
7 Workplace Safety and Health Bill, second reading, Parliament of Singapore,  
 January 17, 2006. 
8 MOM, WSH Council, and WSH Institute, “WSH 2018 Plus: Advancing Workplace Safety  
& Health in Singapore for 
2018 and Beyond”; Workplace Safety and Health Bill, second reading,  
 Parliament of Singapore, January 
17, 2006. 
9 Richard Magnus, Teh Cee Ing, and Lau Joo Ming, Report of the Committee of Inquiry  
Into the Incident at 
the MRT Circle Line Worksite That Led to the Collapse of the Nicoll  
Highway on 20 April 
2004, Vol 1 (Part I), May 2005. An interim report was released in  
September 2004. 
10 Ministry of Manpower, “Press Release Committee of Inquiry Concludes String of Critical  
Design Errors Caused Collapse 
at Nicoll Highway”, May 13, 2005, https://www.nas.gov.sg/  
 archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/20050513987.pdf.  
11 Ministry of Manpower, Ministry of National Development, and Ministry of Transport,  
“Government Response to the Final Report of the Committee of Inquiry Into the  Nicoll 
Highway Collapse”, May 17, 2005, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/  
pdfdoc/20050517990.pdf .
12 Workplace Safety and Health Bill, second reading, Parliament of Singapore, January 17, 2006. 
13 MOM book interview with Ng Eng Hen on September 26, 2024. 
14 “Reforming our WSH Landscape (2005-2014)”, in Fifty Years, One Vision: Transforming Singapore  
into a Nation of 
WSH Excellence (Singapore: Occupational Safety and Health Division of the  
 Ministry of Manpower, 2016)
, 103. 
15 MOM book interview with Ho Siong Hin on July 4, 2024. 
16 “Reforming our WSH Landscape (2005-2014)”, in Fifty Years, One Vision, 106; 122-23. 
17 MOM book interview with Ho Siong Hin on July 4, 2024. 
18 MOM, WSH Council, and WSH Institute, “WSH 2018 Plus: Advancing Workplace Safety  
& Health in Singapore for 
2018 and Beyond”. The council also rallied industry partners  
around raising WSH standards, 
through awareness programmes such as the annual  
National Workplace Safety & 
Health Campaign. 
19 WSH 2018: A National Strategy for Workplace Safety and Health in Singapore (Singapore:  
Workplace Safety and Health Council, 
2009). The committee had also consulted members  
of an International Advisory 
Panel (formed in 2006) of renowned global experts. 356 357
Charting Our Path24 MOM book interview with Lim Swee Say on April 22, 2024. 
25 MOM book interview with Lim Swee Say on April 22, 2024. 
26 Ministry of Trade and Industry, “Productivity Solutions Grant”, https://www.mti.gov.sg/-/  
 media/MTI/COS-2021/Factsheets/5-PSG_MTI-COS-2021-Media-Factsheet.pdf.  
27 Toh Wen Li, “Road map to boost furniture industry unveiled at opening of Singapore  
 Design Week”, The Straits Times, March 
8, 2018. 
28 Ministry of Finance, “Progress of Industry Transformation Maps”, April 5, 2021, https://  
 www.mof.gov.sg/news-publications/parliamentary-replies/progress-of-industry-  
 transformation-maps. 
29 Ministry of Trade and Industry, Transforming the Singapore Economy,  
 https://www.mti.gov.sg/-/media/MTI/Resources/Publications/Transforming-the-  
 Singapore-Economy/Transforming-the-Singapore-Economy-Report.pdf.  
30 Singapore Department of Statistics, Census of Population 2020 Statistical Release 2 - Key  
Findings, 2010-2020, https://www.singstat.gov.sg/-/media/files/publications/cop2
020 
 /sr2/findings2.pdfSi. 
31 Singapore Department of Statistics, Census of Population 2020 Statistical Release 2 - Key  
Findings, 2010-2020, https://www.singstat.gov.sg/-/media/files/publications/cop2
020/  
 sr2/findings2.pdfSi. 
32 Singapore Department of Statistics, Census of Population 2020 Statistical Release 2 - Key  
Findings, 2010-2020, https://www.singstat.gov.sg/-/media/files/publications/cop2
020/  
 sr2/findings2.pdfSi.
Chapter 10
1 MOM book interview with Ng Eng Hen on September 26, 2024. 
2 The PSLE pass rate was 61.9 per cent in 1972. See “47,006 Pass Primary Six Exam”,  
 The Straits Times, November 7, 1972
. 
3 “Gross Monthly Income From Employment (Including Employer CPF) Of Full-Time Employed  
Residents”, Ministry of Manpower, Department of Manpower 
Research and Statistics,  
 https://stats.mom.gov.sg/iMAS_Tables1/Time-Series-Table/mrsd_43_FT_Res
_ income.xlsx.  
4 Singapore Department of Statistics, “Average Monthly Household Income from Work  
Per Household Member (Including Employer CPF Contributions) Among Resident  
Employed Households,” and “Real Change in Average Monthly Household 
Income from   
Work Per Household Member (Including Employer CPF Contributions) Among 
Resident  
Employed Households”, https://tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/CT/17883 and 
https://  
 tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/CT/17885. 
5 Singapore Department of Statistics, “Gini Coefficient Among Resident Employed  
 Households”, https://tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/CT/17892.  
6 Report of Ministerial Committee on Low Wage Workers, Ministerial Committee on Low Wage  
 Workers, January 2006.  
7 Report of Ministerial Committee on Low Wage Workers, Ministerial Committee on Low Wage  
 Workers, January 2006. 
8 Jacqueline Poh, “Workfare: The Fourth Pillar of Social Security in Singapore”, Ethos, Issue  
 3, Oct 2007, https://knowledge.csc.gov.sg/ethos-issue-03/the-fourth-pillar-of-social-  
 security-in-singapore.  
9 Ng Eng Hen, “Speech at Press Conference: Dr Ng Eng Hen, Minister for Manpower,  
 MOM Conference Room”, Ministry Of Manpower, February 16, 
2007. 
10 “Aid for Work: The Singapore and US Models in Context”, Ethos, 3 April 2010,  
 https://knowledge.csc.gov.sg/ethos-issue-03/the-singapore-and-us-models-in-context/ 
11 MOM book interview with Ng Eng Hen on September 26, 2024.  
12 Ministry of Manpower, “Declarations for Final Portion of Workfare Bonus Scheme  
to Begin on 1 February 2007”, January 30, 2007.
 Notes
Chapter 9
1 Singapore Department of Statistics, “Key Indicators On The Elderly”, https://tablebuilder.  
 singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/M810611.  
2 Singapore Department of Statistics, “Population Trends, 2021”, singstat.gov.sg/-/media/  
 files/publications/population/population2021.pdf.  
3 “Employed Persons Aged Fifteen Years and Over, 1991 To 2024”, Ministry of  
Manpower, Department of Research and Statistics, https
://stats.mom.gov.sg/Pages/  
 EmploymentTimeSeries.aspx. 
4 “Employed Persons Aged Fifteen Years and Over, 1991 To 2024,” Ministry of Manpower,  
Department of Research and Statistics, https://stats.mom.gov.sg/Pages/EmploymentTimeSeries 
 .aspx. 
5 Ministry of Manpower, “Labour Market 2009 report”, March 15, 2010. 
6 Ministry of Manpower, “Labour Market 2009 report”, March 15, 2010. 
7 Goh Tee Wei, Fan Shir Li, “Drivers Of Labour Productivity Growth Trends In Singapore”,  
Economic Survey of Singapore 2014, 
Ministry of Trade and Industry, https://www.mti 
 .gov.sg/-/media/MTI/Legislation/Public-Consultations/2015/Drivers-of-Labour-  
 Productivity-Growth-Trends-in-Singapore/fa_aes2014.pdf?la=en&hash 
 =F5E0E7B416EB0754D484E085823B5537.  
8 “Wages in Singapore, 2010”, Singapore Yearbook of Manpower Statistics, 2011,  
 Ministry of Manpower, June 30, 2011. 
9 MOM book interview with Lim Swee Say on April 22, 2024.
10 Lee Hsien Loong, “Transcript of speech by PM Lee Hsien Loong at the NTU Students’ Union  
Ministerial Forum 2009”, Prime Minister’s Office, Sept 
16, 2009, https://www.pmo 
 .gov.sg/Newsroom/transcript-prime-minister-lee-hsien-loongs-speech-ntu-students-   
 union-ministerial-forum. 
11 “Fewer foreign workers in five years, says MM”, The Straits Times, January 28, 2010. 
12 Tharman Shanmugaratnam, “Budget Speech 2010, 22 February 2010,” Ministry of Finance,  
 https://www.mof.gov.sg/docs/default-source/default-document-library/singapore-  
 budget/budget-archives/2010/fy2010_budget_statement.pdf?sfvrsn=252ea182_2. 
13  Tharman Shanmugaratnam, “Budget 2010 Debate Round-Up Speech”, March 4, 2010. 
14 Ministry of Manpower, “Changes to Foreign Worker Levy For Sustainable Growth”,  
 February 23, 2010. 
15 Gan Kim Yong, “Speech at Budget Debate on Foreign Worker Levy Changes delivered by  
 Mr Gan Kim Yong, Minister for Manpower”, Parliament 
of Singapore, March 4, 2010. 
16 Head S - Ministry of Manpower, Parliament of Singapore, March 9, 2011. 
17 Jessica Pan and Walter Theseira, “Immigration in Singapore”, World Bank background 
paper to The World Development Report 2023, April 
2023, https://thedocs.worldbank.org/  
 en/doc/080a4bc64cc8a9eb8a2a0e98d97a260a-0050062023/immigration-in-singapore.  
18 Ministry of Manpower, “Foreign Worker Levy Changes”, February 21, 2011. 
19 Ministry of Manpower, “Further Moderating Demand for Foreign Manpower”,  
February 17, 2012. 
20 Ministry of Manpower, “Further Moderating Demand for Foreign Manpower”,  
 February 17, 2012. 
21 Committee of Supply - Head S (Ministry of Manpower), Parliament of Singapore, March 5, 2012 . 
22 Wong Siew Ying, “Parliament: Foreign share of workforce in Singapore to be kept at one-third”,  
 The Straits Times, September 26, 2
016. 
23 Kuan Ming Leong, “Towards a Productivity-Driven and Innovation-Led Singapore Economy”,  
 in Economics in Practice: Evidence-Based Polic
ymaking in Singapore, eds. M. L. Kuan, C. H. Leong,  
J. Poh, Y. W. Yong, C. S. Yip, and B. L. Chua (Singapore: World Scientific, 2022),  65-100.358 359
Charting Our Path12 Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy and Tripartite Collective, “The Role of Tripartism  
in Singapore’s Progressive Wage 
Model”, 7, https://www.tal.sg/-/media/fcb7b637db6 
 648bfbd48060ea419dffc.ashx.  
13 Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy and Tripartite Collective, “The Role of Tripartism  
in Singapore’s Progressive Wage 
Model”, 8, https://www.tal.sg/-/media/fcb7b637db6 
 648bfbd48060ea419dffc.ashx.  
14 Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy and Tripartite Collective, “The Role of Tripartism in  
Singapore’s Progressive Wage Model”,
 8, https://www.tal.sg/-/media/fcb7b637db6648bfb 
 d48060ea419dffc.ashx. 
15 Terence Ho, “The Growing Scope and Impact of the Progressive Wage Model”,  
Singapore Labour 
Journal 2, no. 1 (2023): 59. 
16 Terence Ho, “The Growing Scope and Impact of the Progressive Wage Model”,  
 Singapore Labour 
Journal 2, no. 1 (2023): 59. 
17 Terence Ho, “The Growing Scope and Impact of the Progressive Wage Model”,  
 Singapore Labour 
Journal 2, no. 1 (2023): 59. 
18 Terence Ho, “The Growing Scope and Impact of the Progressive Wage Model”,  
 Singapore Labour 
Journal 2, no. 1 (2023): 59. 
19 MOM book interview with Lim Swee Say on April 22, 2024. 
20 Pertains to the simple average of the cumulative change in the real median gross monthly  
wages (excluding employer 
CPF) of full-time resident employees in each of the PWM  
occupations – cleaners, 
security guards and landscape workers between 2014 and 2019.  
Landscape workers are 
defined as park, garden and landscape maintenance workers  
(SSOC 9214) only. 
21 Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy and Tripartite Collective, “The Role of Tripartism in  
Singapore’s Progressive Wage Model”,
 14, https://www.tal.sg/-/media/fcb7b637db6648 
 bfbd48060ea419dffc.ashx.  
22 Ministry of Manpower, NTUC, and SNEF, “Progress Through Solidarity & Dynamism:  
Tripartite Workgroup on 
Lower Wage Workers Report”, August 2021, 6, https://www.   
 mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/employment-practices/lww/tripartite-work
group 
-on-lower-wage-workers-report.pdf.
23 “Progressive Wage Model – Singapore National Employers Federation”, https://snef.org.  
 sg/resources/tripartite-advisories-and-guidelines/progressive-wage-model/.  
24 Ministry of Manpower, NTUC, and SNEF, “Progress Through Solidarity & Dynamism:  
Tripartite Workgroup on 
Lower Wage Workers Report”, August 2021, https://www.mom.  
 gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/employment-practices/lww/tripartite-workgroup-on-  
 lower-wage-workers-report.pdf.  
25 Zaqy Mohamad, Impact of Local Qualifying Salary Requirement and Expansion of Progressive Wage  
Model on Costs, Productivity and Jobs , Parliament of Singapore,  September 14, 2021. 
26 Lee Hsien Loong, “National Day Rally 2021, ” Prime Minis ter’s Office, August 2 9, 2021. 
27 Ministry of Manpower, “Majority of employers meet the Progressive Wage Model  
requirements; Action to be tak en against non-compliant employers”, June 6, 202 4, https:// 
 www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press-releases/2024/0606-majority-of-employers-meet- 
 pwm-requirements. 
28 “What is the Progressive Wage Model”, Minis try of Manpower Singapore, July 5, 2024,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/employment-practices/progressive-wage-model/what-is-pwm. 
29 Zaqy Mohamad, Commi ttee of Supply – Head S (Mini stry of Manpower) , Parliament of Singapore,  
 March 4, 2024. 
30 MOM book interview with Lim Swee Say on April 22 , 2024.Notes
13 Ministry of Finance, “Ready for the future, ready for the world”, February 15, 2007.  
 https://www.nas.gov.
sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/2007021502.htm. 
14 Ministry of Manpower, “Uplifting the Wages & Well-being of Lower-Wage Workers”,  
 https://www.mom.gov.
sg/-/media/mom/documents/budget2022/supporting-lwws-   
 infographic.pdf.  
15 Zaqy Mohamad, “Speech by Senior Minister of State for Manpower Mr Zaqy Mohamad at  
Committee of Supply 202
4”, Ministry of Manpower, March 4, 2024, https://www.mom.   
 gov.sg/newsroom/speeches/2024/0304-speech-by-sms-zaqy-at-cos-2024.  
16 Central Provident Fund Board, “Boost your savings with Workfare Income Supplement”,  
Central Provident Fund Board,
 https://www.cpf.gov.sg/member/growing-your-savings/  
 government-support/workfare-income-supplement.  
17 Central Provident Fund Board, “Boost your savings with Workfare Income Supplement”,  
Central Provident Fund Board,
 https://www.cpf.gov.sg/member/growing-your-savings/  
 government-support/workfare-income-supplement.  
18 MOM book interview with Ng Eng Hen on September 26, 2024. 
19 Inclusive Growth (Motion) , Parliament of Singapore, January 12, 2011.   
20 Ministry of Manpower, “Workright: know your employment rights”,  
 https://www.mom.gov.
sg/employment-practices/employment-act/workright.  
21 Manpower Ministry, “Companies Gear Up to Tap on WorkPro”, April 7, 2013. 
22 Ministry of Manpower and Workforce Singapore, “Factsheet on WorkPro”, https://www.  
 mom.gov.sg/~/media/mom/documents/employment-practices/workpro/factsheet-on-   
 enhanced-workpro.pdf?la=en.  
23 Ministry of Manpower, “Workcare”, https://www.mom.gov.sg/employment-practices/   
 schemes-for-employers-and-employees/workcare.  
24 Singapore Department of Statistics, “Key Household Income Trends, 2023”, https://www.  
 singstat.gov.sg/-/media/files/publications/households/pp-s30.
ashx.  
25 “Gross Monthly Income From Employment (Including Employer CPF) Of Full-Time  
Employed Residents”, Ministry 
of Manpower, Department of Manpower Research and   
Statistics, https://stats.
mom.gov.sg/iMAS_Tables1/Time-Series-Table/mrsd_43_FT_Res_  
 income.xlsx.  
26 MOM book interview with Lim Swee Say on April 22, 2024.
Spotlight 5
1 Ramesh Subbaraman, “Outsourced services: Establishing a fair exchange”, https://www.  
 ntuc.org.sg/uportal/news/Outsourced-Services-Establishing-a-Fair-Exchange/.  
2 Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Annual Budget Statement, Parliament of Singapore,  
 February 25, 2013.
 
3 Terence Ho, “The Growing Scope and Impact of the Progressive Wage Model”,  
 Singapore Labour 
Journal 2, no. 1 (2023): 57. 
4 Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy and Tripartite Collective, “The Role of Tripartism  
in Singapore’s Progressive Wage 
Model”, 7, https://www.tal.sg/-/media/fcb7b637db6648 
 bfbd48060ea419dffc.ashx.  
5 “How Many Countries Have A Minimum Wage?”, International Labour Organization,  
December 3, 2015. 
6 MOM book interview with Ng Chee Meng on June 28, 2024. 
7 MOM book interview with Diana Chia on September 13, 2024. 
8 MOM book interview with Loh Khum Yean on July 11, 2024. 
9 On July 27, 2020, MEWR was renamed as the Ministry of Sustainability and Environment (MSE). 
10 MOM book interview with Lim Swee Say on April 22, 2024. 
11 Terence Ho, “The Growing Scope and Impact of the Progressive Wage Model”,  
Singapore Labour 
Journal 2, no. 1 (2023): 58. 360 361
Charting Our Path28 Tan See Leng, “Speech by 2nd Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng at Committee of   
 Supply 2021”, Ministry of Manpower, March 3, 2021, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom 
 /speeches/2021/0303-speech-by-2m-dr-tan-see-leng-at-mom-committee-of-supply-2021.  
29 Ministry of Manpower, “Around 1,000 dormitories to transition to improved standards to  
 strengthen migrant worker housing resilience”, October 11, 2023, https://www.mom.gov.  
 sg/newsroom/press-releases/2023/1011-dts.  
30 “MOM to open new dorm in early 2026 with privacy nooks, single beds for migrant workers”,  
 The Straits Times, November 17, 2024.  
31 “Improved standards for foreign worker dorms gain traction”, The Straits Times, April 28, 2023.  
32 MOM book interview with Aubeck Kam on July 24, 2024.  
33 “Ace group to support well-being of migrant workers as permanent unit under MOM”,  
 The Straits Times, September 26, 2021. 
34 MOM book interview with Loh Khum Yean on July 11, 2024.  
35 MOM book interview with Aubeck Kam on July 24, 2024.
Chapter 12
1 International Labour Organization, “Who are domestic workers”.  
2 “Foreign workforce numbers”, Ministry of Manpower, accessed December 11, 2024,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/foreign-workforce-numbers. 
3 “Foreign workforce numbers”, Ministry of Manpower, accessed December 11, 2024; Singapore  
 Department of Statistics, Households, retrieved from https://www.singstat.gov.sg/publications 
 /reference/ebook/households/households. 
4 “Can home cleaning scheme replace live-in maids?”, The Straits Times, August 29, 2021.  
5 Singapore Department of Statistics, Report on the Census of Population 1970 Singapore   
 – Volumes I & II, 92, Parliament of Singapore, November 12, 1973, 92, https://www.nas.  
 gov.sg/archivesonline/government_records/record-details/7e2bebc7-b836-11e7-81c8-  
 0050568939ad. 
6 “Record Number of Women in the U.S. Labor Force”, PRB, February 1, 2001,  
 https://www.prb.org/resources/record-number-of-women-in-the-u-s-labor-force/#:~:text=In 
 %201970%2C%20about%2043%20percent,78%20percent%20to%2074%20percent.  
7 Debate on President’s Address, Parliament of Singapore, August 5, 1971. 
8 “Creches, not servants, the solution”,  New Nation, May 31, 1978.  
9 “Govt. plan to build six more creches”,  New Nation, November 27, 1973. 
10 “Shortage of labour is now critical”, The Business Times, June 7, 1978. 
11 “New work permits: Wider choice to help ease labour shortage”, The Straits Times,   
 December 2, 1978.  
12 “That bond for alien servants cut to $5,000”, The Straits Times, September 30, 1978.  
13 Report on the Labour Force Survey of Singapore 1988 (Singapore: Research and Statistics   
 Department, Ministry of Labour, 1988), 11.  
14 “Security bond requirements for MDWs”, Ministry of Manpower, accessed September 18,  
 2024, https://www.mom.gov.sg/passes-and-permits/work-permit-for-foreign-domestic- 
 worker/eligibility-and-requirements/security-bond.  
15 Ministry of Labour, “Levy on Foreign Domestic Servants”, September 29, 1984.  
16 “New disincentives in hiring of maids”, Singapore Monitor, November 30, 1984.  
17 “Maid levy will stay despite new appeals”, The Straits Times, November 30, 1986.  
18 Singapore Government, “Changes in the Foreign Worker Policy for Foreign Maids, Construction  
 and Marine Industries”, March 19, 1992, https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/  
 pdfdoc/321-1992-02-18.pdf.  
19 Singapore Government, “Foreign Worker and Foreign Maid Levy Increases”, June 20, 1989,  
 https://www.nas.gov.sg/archivesonline/data/pdfdoc/313-1989-06-02.pdf.  
20 Levy for Employment of Household Maids, Parliament of Singapore, November 19, 1997.  Notes
Chapter 11
1 “The World Bank in Singapore”, World Bank Group, https://www.worldbank.org/en/  
 country/singapore/overview.  
2 Ravi Menon, “‘An Economic History of Singapore: 1965-2065’ – Keynote Address by   
 Mr Ravi Menon, Managing Director, Monetary Authority of Singapore, at the Singapore   
 Economic Review Conference 2015 on 5 August 2015”, August 5, 2015, https://www.mas.  
 gov.sg/news/speeches/2015/an-economic-history-of-singapore.  
3 “Foreign Workforce Numbers”, Ministry of Manpower Singapore, accessed September 12,   
 2024, https://www.mom.gov.sg/foreign-workforce-numbers.  
4 Goh Keng Swee, The Practice of Economic Growth (Singapore: Marshall Cavendish   
 Academic, 2004), 26.  
5 Singapore Department of Statistics, Gross Domestic Product in Chained (2015) Dollars,  
 By Industry (SSIC 2020), retrieved from https://tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/  
 M015661/1000.  
6 Singapore Department of Statistics, Key Data Of Gross Domestic Product In Chained (2015)  
 Dollars, By Industry (SSIC 2020), retrieved from https://tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/ 
 M015951. 
7  “More foreign workers employed illegally”, The Straits Times, October 1, 1988.  
8 Immigration (Amendment) Bill, Parliament of Singapore, January 26, 1989.  
9 Employment of Foreign Workers Bill, Parliament of Singapore, October 4, 1990.  
10 “80 illegal workers nabbed over 2 weeks”, The Straits Times, January 26, 1991.  
11 Labour Suppliers of Foreign Workers (Deployment), Parliament of Singapore, December 5, 2002. 
12 Employment of Foreign Workers (Amendment) Bill, Parliament of Singapore, May 22, 2007.  
13 “Labour syndicate busted”, TODAY, April 10, 2009.  
14 Employment of Foreign Manpower (Amendment) Bill, Parliament of Singapore, September 11, 2012.  
15 Foreign Worker Survey 2014: Report on Findings (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower and Migrant  
 Workers’ Centre, 2014), 2-7, https://www.mom.gov.sg/~/media/mom/documents/statistics- 
 publications/foreign-worker-survey-2014.pdf.  
16 Accommodation for Foreign Workers (Guidelines), Parliament of Singapore, May 21, 2007.  
17 “What are the options? Mr Mah On…”, TODAY, September 18, 2008.  
18 “Foreign workers? Not in my backyard”, The Straits Times, September 3, 2009.  
19 Foreign Employee Dormitories Bill, Parliament of Singapore, January 20, 2015.  
20 Government’s Response to Report of Committee of Inquiry into 8 December 2013 Little India Riot,  
 Parliament of Singapore, July 7, 2014.  
21 MOM book interview with Loh Khum Yean on July 11, 2024.  
22 Foreign Employee Dormitories Bill, Parliament of Singapore, January 20, 2015.  
23 “Foreign workers to get four more recreation centres by end of next year”, The Straits Times,  
 May 25, 2014.  
24 Foreign Worker Management, Parliament of Singapore, January 20, 2014.  
25 Ministry of Manpower, “MOM to Improve Diversity and Quality of Offerings at Recreation  
 Centres,” June 28, 2024, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press-releases/2024/0628- 
 mom-to-improve-diversity-and-quality-of-offerings-at-recreation-centres.  
26 “NTUC to serve more migrant workers at three migrant worker recreation centres”,   
  National Trades Union Congress, U Women and Family, June 28, 2024, https://www.ntuc.org.  
 sg/uwomenandfamily/news/NTUC-to-Serve-More-Migrant-Workers-at-Three-Migrant- 
 Worker-Recreation-Centres. 
27 Ministry of Manpower, “Expanded Foreign Employee Dormitories Act to Licence 1,600   
 Dormitories Under Single Regulatory Framework”, September 6, 2022, https://www.mom.  
 gov.sg/newsroom/press-releases/2022/0906-expanded-feda.  362 363
Charting Our PathSpotlight 6
1 “Singapore confirms first case of Wuhan virus; second case likely”, The Straits Times,   
 January 23, 2020.  
2 “Coronavirus: S’pore reports first cases of local transmission; 4 out of 6 new cases did not  
 travel to China”, The Straits Times, February 4, 2020.  
3 “Naming the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and the virus that causes it”, World Health  
 Organization, https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/  
 technical-guidance/naming-the-coronavirus-disease-(covid-2019)-and-the-virus-that- 
 causes-it#:~:text=WHO%20announced%20%E2%80%9CCOVID%2D19%E2%80%9D,the%20 
 United%20Nations%20(FAO).  
4 Singapore Department of Statistics, “Contribution to Growth in Gross Domestic Product in  
 Chained (2015) Dollars, By Industry (SSIC 2020)”, last updated May 23, 2024, retrieved  
 from https://tablebuilder.singstat.gov.sg/table/TS/M015741.  
5 MOM book interview with Josephine Teo on July 10, 2024. 
6 Committee of Supply – Head S (Ministry of Manpower), Parliament of Singapore, March 3, 2021.  
7 “Malaysians with work permits can continue working in Singapore, says MFA”,  
 The Straits Times, March 20, 2020.  
8 MOM book interview with Josephine Teo on July 10, 2024. 
9 “10,000 M’sians workers affected by lockdown have found accommodation, Govt will   
 continue helping the rest: Josephine Teo”, The Straits Times, March 17, 2020.  
10 “10,000 M’sians workers affected by lockdown have found accommodation, Govt will   
 continue helping the rest: Josephine Teo”, The Straits Times.  
11 Ministry of Manpower, “Temporary Housing Support for Employers Affected by Malaysia’s  
 Movement Control Order”, March 19, 2020, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press- 
 releases/2020/0319-temporary-housing-support-for-employers-affected-by-malaysias- 
 movement-control-order.  
12 Josephine Teo, “Ministerial Statement by Mrs Josephine Teo, Minister for Manpower”,   
 Ministry of Manpower, May 4, 2020, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/parliament-  
 questions-and-replies/2020/0504-ministerial-statement-by-mrs-josephine-teo-minister- 
 for-manpower-4-may-2020.  
13 Kevin Qua, Michelle Yeo, Jasmine Lee, and Kristina Chua, “Impact of COVID-19 on the   
 Retail and Food & Beverage Services Sectors”, Statistics Singapore Newsletter (2021, issue 1).  
14 “Impact of the Circuit Breaker and Budget Measures in Response to COVID-19”, Ministry  
 of Trade and Industry, August 11, 2020, https://www.mti.gov.sg/Resources/feature-  
 articles/2020/Impact-of-the-Circuit-Breaker-and-Budget-Measures-in-Response-to-  
 COVID-19.  
15 “Statement on Labour Market Developments in 2H 2020”, Ministry of Manpower, March  
 16, 2021, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/mom-statements/2021/statement-on-labour- 
 market-developments-2h-2020.  
16 “Impact of the Circuit Breaker and Budget Measures in Response to COVID-19”, Ministry of  
 Trade and Industry.  
17 Ministry of Manpower, “National Wages Council, 2020/2021 Guidelines”, March 30, 2020,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press-releases/2020/0330-national-wages-council- 
 2020-2021-guidelines. Cherine Ang (Lead author), Tripartism in Singapore: A Steward   
 Leadership Approach to Crisis Management (COVID-19 Case Study) (Singapore: Stewardship  
 Asia Centre, 2022), 18.  
18 Cherine Ang, Tripartism in Singapore: A Steward Leadership Approach to Crisis Management  
 (COVID-19 Case Study), 11.  
19 Ministry of Manpower, “More than $50 million to be paid out under Enhanced Work-  
 Life Grant (COVID-19)”, May 28, 2020, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press-  
 releases/2020/0528-more-than-50m-to-be-paid-out-under-enhanced-work-life-grant- 
 covid-19.  Notes
21 Budget, Ministry of Labour, Parliament of Singapore, July 25, 1997.  
22 “Welfare groups call for stricter rules on maids hanging laundry”, The Straits Times,  
 June 6, 2012.  
23 Ministry of Manpower, “Enhanced & Safe Working Conditions Must Be In Place Before   
 FDWs Allowed to Clean Window Exteriors”, June 4, 2012. 
24 “Contracts and safety agreement for migrant domestic worker”, Ministry of Manpower,   
 accessed January 6, 2025, https://www.mom.gov.sg/passes-and-permits/work-permit 
 -for-foreign-domestic-worker/employers-guide/contracts-and-safety-agreement.  
25 Penal Code (Amendment Bill), Parliament of Singapore, April 20, 1998.  
26 “Indonesia stops sending maids to S’pore temporarily”, The Straits Times: Weekly 
 Overseas Edition, September 27, 1997; “Boy admits having hit his maid”, The Straits Times,  
 February 10, 1998.  
27 Abuse of Foreign Maids (Standards of Employment and Welfare), Parliament of Singapore,   
 August 27, 2002. 
28 “Foreign workers a high-risk group”, The Straits Times, March 9, 2006.  
29 MOM book interview with Yong Ying-I on April 19, 2024.  
30 “No plans to change eligibility criteria, says MOM”, The Straits Times, March 26, 2011. 
31 “Underage maids: Onus on agencies to ensure entry norms”, Ministry of Manpower,   
 December 29, 2010.  
32 Committee of Supply – Head S (Ministry of Manpower), Parliament of Singapore,  
 March 5, 2012.  
33 “True Crimes of Asia: Myanmar maid’s death sparks reform in worker protection but gaps  
 still exist”, The Straits Times, June 27, 2023.  
34 MOM book interview with Aubeck Kam on July 24, 2024.  
35 “Migrant domestic worker house visits”, Ministry of Manpower, accessed September 18,  
 2024, https://www.mom.gov.sg/passes-and-permits/work-permit-for-foreign-domestic- 
 worker/employers-guide/mdw-house-visit.  
36 “Migrant domestic worker interview”, Ministry of Manpower, accessed January 27, 2025,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/passes-and-permits/work-permit-for-foreign-domestic-worker 
 /employers-guide/mdw-interview.  
37 “Rest days, health and well-being for migrant domestic workers”, Ministry of Manpower,  
 accessed September 18, 2024, https://www.mom.gov.sg/passes-and-permits/work-  
 permit-for-foreign-domestic-worker/employers-guide/rest-days-and-well-being 
38 “Maids in S’pore must get one mandatory rest day per month from Jan 1: MOM”,  
 The Straits Times, October 7, 2022.  
39 “Better match for employers in hiring Foreign Domestic Workers,” Ministry of Manpower,  
 October 6, 2019, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press-releases/2019/1006-better- 
 match-for-employers-in-hiring-fdws.  
40 “Refund of EA service fee”, Ministry of Manpower, February 5, 2025, https://www.mom.  
 gov.sg/employment-agencies/refund-of-ea-service-fee#:~:text=If%20a%20migrant%20 
 domestic%20worker’s,if%20refund%20conditions%20are%20met.  
41 “Majority of maids, employers ‘satisfied with employment relationships’: MOM survey”,  
 Channel NewsAsia, June 8, 2022.  
42 “She completed law degree while working as a domestic helper in Singapore”,  
 The Straits Times, April 25, 2024. 
43 “‘I want to have a purpose beyond just working’: Foreign domestic worker on gaining more  
 skills”, The Straits Times, June 18, 2023.  
44 “More families seek part-time help to care for children, seniors after expansion of   
 Household Services Scheme”, Channel NewsAsia, March 21, 2023. 
45 “More families seek part-time help to care for children, seniors after expansion of   
 Household Services Scheme”, Channel NewsAsia, March 21, 2023.364 365
Charting Our Path44 Ministry of Manpower, “About 100,000 expected to automatically benefit from Enhanced  
 Self-Employed Person Income Relief Scheme”, April 6, 2020, https://www.mom.gov.sg/  
	 newsroom/press-releases/2020/0406-about-100000-expected-to-automatically-benefit-from-	
 enhanced-sirs.  
45 Ministry of Manpower, “Close to 200,000 Self-Employed Persons (SEPs) have benefitted from  
 the SEP Income Relief Scheme (SIRS)”, December 16, 2020, https://www.mom.gov.sg/  
 newsroom/press-releases/2020/1216-close-to-200000-seps-benefitted-from-sirs.  
46 Ministry of Manpower, “Job Situation Report – 11 August 2020”, August 11, 2020, https://www.  
 mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press-releases/2020/0811-jobs-situation-report---11-august.  
47 “Weekly reports will be helpful, but include more details to aid job seekers”, The Straits Times,  
 August 12, 2020. 
48 White Paper on Singapore’s Response to COVID-19: Lessons for the Next Pandemic  (Singapore: Prime  
 Minister’s Office, 2023), 38-39.  
49 “Covid’s lost generation?: What this year’s disruptions will cost Singapore’s young adults,  
 and what lies ahead for them”, The Business Times, December 18, 2020.  
50 “Singapore’s resident employment rate above pre-pandemic levels, but labour market still  
 impacted by COVID-19: MOM”,  Channel NewsAsia, December 1, 2021.  
51 Ministry of Health, “Government Accepts Recommendations of Expert Committee on COVID-19  
 Vaccination”, December 27, 2020, https://www.moh.gov.sg/newsroom/government-accepts- 
 recommendations-of-expert-committee-on-covid-19-vaccination.  
52 “From Jan 15, unvaccinated workers not allowed to return to workplace even with negative  
 pre-event test”, The Straits Times, December 26, 2021.  
53 “Tracking Singapore’s Covid-19 vaccination progress”,The Straits Times, June 26, 2021.  
54 “Written Answer by Minister for Manpower Mrs Josephine Teo on Vaccination of   
 Employees”, Ministry of Manpower, April 8, 2021, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/ 
 parliament-questions-and-replies/2021/0405-written-answer-by-minister-on-vaccination-of- 
 employees.  
55 “Only Vaccinated Employees Can Return to the Workplace in 2022”, Creative Media and  
 Publishing Union, October 23, 2021, https://www.ntuc.org.sg/cmpu/news/Only 
 -Vaccinated-Employees-Can-Return-to-the-Workplace-in-2022. 
56 “Updated Covid-19 advisories: Vaccination at the workplace and work and leave   
 arrangements for Covid-19 positive employees who are mildly symptomatic or physically  
 well”, Allen & Gledhill, January 27, 2022, https://www.allenandgledhill.com/sg/  
 publication/articles/20083/updated-cov19-advisories-vaccination-at-the-workplace-and- 
 work-and-leave-arrangements-for-cov19-positive-employees-who-are-mildly- 
 symptomatic-or-physically-well.  
57 Singapore National Employers Federation, “Extension of the National Wages Council   
 2020/2021 guidelines and Supplementary Guidelines”, May 14, 2021, https://snef.org.   
 sg/snef_news/extension-of-the-national-wages-council-2020-2021-guidelines-and-  
 supplementary-guidelines.  
58 Ministry of Manpower, “New Taskforce to Enhance Mental Health Care Support for   
 Migrant Workers”, November 6, 2020, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press-  
 releases/2020/1106-new-taskforce-to-enhance-mental-health-care-support-for- 
 migrant-workers.  
59 “HealthServe Launches First 24-hour Crisis Helpline for Migrant Workers in Singapore”,  
 HealthServe, https://healthserve.org.sg/healthserve-launches-first-24-hour-crisis-  
 helpline-for-migrant-workers-in-singapore.  
60 “Who We Are”, Migrantwell Singapore, https://migrantwell.org.sg/who-we-are.  
61 “Migrant workers in higher-risk dorms to get Covid-19 vaccines first: Tan See Leng”,  
 The Straits Times, February 1, 2021.  
62 “Up to 21,000 migrant workers per week allowed to visit public places from Dec 3”,  
 The Straits Times, November 15, 2021.  Notes
20 “Foreign workforce numbers”, Ministry of Manpower, https://www.mom.gov.sg/foreign- 
 workforce-numbers. 
21 Ministry of Manpower, “Measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak in migrant   
 worker dormitories”, December 14, 2020, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/ 
 press-releases/2020/1214-measures-to-contain-the-covid-19-outbreak-in-migrant-  
 worker-dormitories.  
22 “Explainer: How did migrant worker dormitories become Singapore’s biggest coronavirus  
 cluster?”, South China Morning Post, April 17, 2020.  
23 Sue-Ann Chia, ed., Behind the Mask  (Singapore: Ministry of Health, Singapore;  
 Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore, 2023), 83.  
24 “Clarification regarding falsehood published by the National University of Singapore   
 Society (NUSS), The Online Citizen Asia (TOC), CNA and New Naratif on MOM’s advisory  
 on testing of migrant workers”, gov.sg, July 5, 2020.  
25 “Inter-agency task force to help migrant workers living in dorms affected by COVID-19”,  
 Channel NewsAsia, April 7, 2020.  
26 “Coronavirus: All foreign workers in dormitories to stop work until May 4”,  
 The Straits Times, April 21, 2020.  
27 “12-person room limit, en-suite toilets: Foreign worker dorms in Singapore given until   
 2030 to improve standards”, Channel NewsAsia, October 11, 2023.  
28 Josephine Teo, “Ministerial Statement by Mrs Josephine Teo, Minister for Manpower”,   
 Ministry of Manpower, May 4, 2020.  
29 “Covid-19 deaths kept low in dorms because older and sicker migrant workers were   
 isolated first: Prof Dale Fisher”, The Straits Times, July 23, 2020.  
30 “Coronavirus: All foreign workers in dormitories to stop work until May 4”, The Straits Times.  
31 “Coronavirus: All foreign workers in dormitories to stop work until May 4”, The Straits Times.  
32 Tan See Leng, “Speech by Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng at the COVID-19 AAR   
 White Paper Parliamentary Debate”, Ministry of Manpower, March 20, 2023,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/parliament-questions-and-replies/2023/0320-speech 
 -by-minister-for-manpower-covid-19-aar-white-paper-debate.  
33 Josephine Teo, “Ministerial Statement by Mrs Josephine Teo, Minister for Manpower”,  
 Ministry of Manpower, May 4, 2020.  
34 “Employers must let their foreign workers move to other dorms or work for other firms to get  
 levy rebates: MOM”, The Straits Times, May 31, 2020.  
35 Lee Hsien Loong, “PM Lee Hsien Loong on the COVID-19 situation in Singapore on 10 April  
 2020”, April 10, 2020, retrieved from https://www.pmo.gov.sg/Newsroom/PM-Lee-Hsien- 
 Loong-on-the-COVID-19-situation-in-Singapore-on-10-April-2020.  
36 Sue-Ann Chia, ed., Behind the Mask , 96.  
37 “All dorms cleared of Covid-19 by Ministry of Manpower as of Aug 11”, The Straits Times,   
 August 11, 2020.  
38 Additional Support Measures in Response to COVID-19 Pandemic , Parliament of Singapore,   
 March 7, 2020.  
39 Economic Survey of Singapore 2021 (Singapore: Ministry of Trade and Industry, 2022),   
 86, https://www.mti.gov.sg/-/media/MTI/Resources/Economic-Survey-of-Singapore/ 
 2021/Economic-Survey-of-Singapore-2021/FullReport_AES2021.pdf. 
40 Josephine Teo, “Ministerial Statement by Mrs Josephine Teo, Minister for Manpower”,   
 Ministry of Manpower, May 4, 2020.  
41 Economic Survey of Singapore 2021 (Singapore: Ministry of Trade and Industry, 2022), 86.  
42 “ILO: Uncertain and uneven recovery expected following unprecedented labour market   
 crisis”, International Labour Organization, January 25, 2021, https://www.ilo.org/resource/ 
 news/ilo-uncertain-and-uneven-recovery-expected-following-unprecedented-labour.  
43 “Covid-19: MOM issues updated advisory on salary and leave arrangements”, Allen &   
 Gledhill, June 15, 2020, https://www.allenandgledhill.com/sg/publication/articles/15333/ 
 cov19-mom-issues-updated-advisory-on-salary-and-leave-arrangements.  366 367
Charting Our Path11 MOM book interview with Aubeck Kam on July 24, 2024. Furthermore, small firms   
	 received	 concessions	 as	changes	in	a	few	staff	could	lead	to	a	large	fluctuation	 in	 
 workforce ratios. As a result, companies with fewer than 25 PMET employees would   
 automatically “meet expectations” on firm-related attributes.  
12 “Speech by Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng at Committee of Supply 2022”,  
 March 4, 2022. After the complete rollout of COMPASS, the Fair Consideration Framework  
 (FCF) Watchlist would be repurposed so it could focus on engaging with businesses   
 that scored badly on firm-related attributes.  
13 The S Pass minimum qualifying salary was raised for the third time in less than three years. 
14 Ministry of Manpower, “Reduction of S Pass Sub Dependency Ratio Ceiling For the   
 Manufacturing Sector”, February 16, 2021, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press-  
 releases/2021/0216-reduction-of-s-pass-sub-drc-for-manufacturing-sector.  
15 See Dominic Low, “Increased Salary Thresholds for Foreigners Might Deepen Hiring Woes  
 in S’pore ICT sector”, The Straits Times, February 26, 2022; Yeo Shu Hui, “Rising Labour   
 Costs, Manpower Shortage and Expansion Plans a Concern for S’pore F&B Owners”,  
 The Straits Times, February 26, 2022; and Chin Soo Fang, “S’pore Retailers Hope to Attract  
 and Train More Local Talents”, The Straits Times, February 26, 2022.  
16 MOM book interview with Tan Hee Teck on October 7, 2024.  
17 Tan See Leng, “Speech by Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng at Committee of Supply  
 2022”, March 4, 2022.  
18 Ng Chee Khern, Workplan Seminar 2023, May 10, 2023. 
19 Lawrence Wong, “Budget 2022 Speech”, February 18, 2022, https://www.mof.gov.sg/docs/ 
 librariesprovider3/budget2022/download/pdf/fy2022_budget_statement.pdf.  
20 The Local Qualifying Salary applies to locals who are not already covered by Progressive  
 Wages. They represent the minimum sums a local worker needs to be paid to qualify as  
 “1 local worker” or “0.5 local worker” in quota calculations for firms looking to hire   
 foreigners. It is not a minimum wage. See also Lawrence Wong, “Budget 2024 Speech”,   
 February 16, 2024.  
21 Ministry of Manpower, “Local Qualifying Salary”, https://www.mom.gov.sg/employment- 
 practices/progressive-wage-model/local-qualifying-salary. 
22 MOM book interview with Kenny Tan on November 1, 2024.  
23 Tan See Leng, “Speech by Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng at Committee of   
 Supply 2022”, Ministry of Manpower, March 4, 2022.  
24 Tan See Leng, “Transcript of Media Soundbite Delivered by Minister for Manpower and   
 Second Minister for Trade and Industry Dr Tan See Leng on 13 December 2022, Tuesday,  
 on the Launch of Manpower for Strategic Economic Priorities (M-SEP) Scheme”, December  
 13, 2022, https://www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/press-releases/2022/  
 annex-c---transcript-of-media-soundbite-by-minister-for-manpower-dr-tan-see- 
 leng.pdf. 
25 Ministry of Manpower, “Foreign Workforce Numbers”, https://www.mom.gov.sg/foreign- 
 workforce-numbers. 
26 Administrative records, with the self-employed component estimated from the Labour   
 Force Survey, compiled by the Manpower Research & Statistics Department, Ministry of  
 Manpower.  
27 Tan See Leng, “Ensuring Bulk of New Jobs Created Will Go to Singapore Citizens and   
 Residents, Including Those Above Age 40”, Parliament of Singapore, April 2, 2024,  
 https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/sprs3topic?reportid=oral-answer-3549. 
28 Singapore Department of Statistics, Births and Fertility, retrieved from https://www.   
 singstat.gov.sg/find-data/search-by-theme/population/births-and-fertility/latest-data.  
29 Singapore Department of Statistics.  
30 Estimates derived using non-resident employment data from administrative records   
 compiled by Ministry of Manpower’s Manpower Research & Statistics Department, and   
 population data from the Singapore Department of Statistics. Notes
63 “Therapy on all fronts for migrant workers”, Tabla!, October 17, 2024.  
64 Tan See Leng, “Speech by 2nd Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng at Committee of Supply  
 2021”, Ministry of Manpower, March 3, 2021, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/speeches 
 /2021/0303-speech-by-2m-dr-tan-see-leng-at-mom-committee-of-supply-2021.  
65 MOM book interview with Tan See Leng on November 29, 2024.  
66 “Employers can soon buy primary care plans to cover migrant workers’ medical costs”,  
 The Straits Times, November 29, 2021.  
67 “Employers must buy primary care plans for migrant workers living in dorms, working in  
 certain sectors from April”, The Straits Times, February 19, 2022.  
68 “Buying a Primary Care Plan (PCP) from Anchor Operators”, Ministry of Manpower,   
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/primary-care-plan/buying-a-pcp.  
69 MOM book interview with Tan See Leng on November 29, 2024.  
70 Tan See Leng, “Speech by Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng at the COVID-19 AAR   
 White Paper Parliamentary Debate”, Ministry of Manpower, March 20, 2023,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/parliament-questions-and-replies/2023/0320-  
 speech-by-minister-for-manpower-covid-19-aar-white-paper-debate.  
71 Cherine Ang, Tripartism in Singapore: A Steward Leadership Approach to Crisis Management  
 (COVID-19 Case Study), 18.  
72 “Employers must buy primary care plans for migrant workers living in dorms, working in  
 certain sectors from April”, The Straits Times.  
73 MOM book interview with Chia Der Jiun on September 2, 2024. 
74 MOM book interview with Aubeck Kam on July 24, 2024.
Chapter 13
1 The Global Talent Competitiveness Index 2022  (France: INSEAD, 2022). 
2 Under the United Kingdom’s High Potential Individual visa, introduced in 2022, graduates  
 from top non-UK universities could go to Britain without a prior job offer. See also Dubai’s  
 Golden Visa (introduced in 2019), Thailand’s Long-Term Residency visa (introduced in   
 September 2022), and Hong Kong’s Top Talent Pass Scheme (launched in late 2022).  
3 Lee Hsien Loong, “National Day Rally”, Prime Minister’s Office, August 21, 2022,  
 https://www.pmo.gov.sg/Newsroom/National-Day-Rally-2022-English.  
4 Ministry of Manpower, “Strengthening Singapore’s Position as a Global Hub for Talent”,  
 August 29, 2022, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press-releases/2022/0829-  
 strengthening-singapores-position-as-a-global-hub-for-talent. 
5 Spouses of ONE Pass holders could seek employment in Singapore by applying for a   
 Dependent Pass and then a Letter of Consent. Alternatively, they could also apply for a   
 mainstream work pass themselves.  
6  MOM book interview with Tan See Leng on November 29, 2024.  
7 Lawrence Wong, “Budget 2022 Speech”, February 18, 2022, https://www.mof.gov.sg/docs/ 
 librariesprovider3/budget2022/download/pdf/fy2022_budget_statement.pdf.  
8 “Speech by Minister for Manpower Dr Tan See Leng at Committee of Supply 2022”,  
 March 4, 2022, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/speeches/2022/0304-speech-by-  
 minister-for-manpower-dr-tan-see-leng-at-committee-of-supply-2022. In 2024, the EP  
 minimum qualifying salary was raised again from S$5,000 to S$5,600 per month.  
9 The idea of a points-based system for EPs had been recommended by the NTUC-SNEF PME  
 Taskforce in 2021. The Complementarity Assessment Framework (COMPASS) was  
 announced at MOM’s Committee of Supply 2022, before being implemented in 2023.  
10 “COMPASS C5. Skills bonus – Shortage Occupation List (SOL)”, Ministry of Manpower,   
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/passes-and-permits/employment-pass/eligibility/compass 
 -c5-skills-bonus-shortage-occupation-list-sol. 368 369
Charting Our Path19 Committee of Supply – Head S (Ministry of Manpower), Parliament of Singapore,  March 4, 2024,  
 https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/sprs3topic?reportid=budget-2369.  
20 Tan See Leng, “Opening Address at IHRP’s People Behind People Forum 2023”,  
 November 15, 2023, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/speeches/2023/1115-speech-by- 
 minister-at-ihrp-people-behind-people-forum-2023.  
21 MOM book interview with Tan Hee Teck on October 7, 2024.  
22 Career Conversion Programmes were known as Professional Conversion Programmes until  
 2021. As an incentive to employers, MOM subsidises up to 90 per cent of the salary of a worker  
 under the scheme.  
23 The SkillsFuture Career Transition Programme, a place-and-train programme launched   
 in 2022, helps mid-career individuals gain industry-relevant skills to pivot to new   
 sectors or roles. The SkillsFuture Level-Up Programme, announced in 2024, involves a   
 S$4,000 SkillsFuture Credit (Mid-Career) Top-Up, support for mid-career Singaporeans to  
 pursue another subsidised full-time diploma, as well as a SkillsFuture Mid-Career Training  
 Allowance. NTUC’s Company Training Committees initiative was announced in 2019, and  
 sees union leaders work closely with company management to implement training plans  
 and help workers stay relevant with new skills. See MySkillsFuture, www.myskillsfuture.  
 gov.sg; and “Company Training Committees (CTCs)”, National Trades Union Congress,   
 www.ntuc.org.sg/uportal/programmes/company-training-committees.  
24 Alliance for Action on Widening Access to Talent (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower and   
 Singapore National Employers Federation, 2024), https://www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/ 
 documents/press-releases/2024/afa_wideningaccesstotalent_report.pdf.  
25 Alliance for Action on Widening Access to Talent (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower and   
 Singapore National Employers Federation, 2024).  
26 Employer-Supported Training 2022 (Singapore: Manpower Research and Statistics Department,  
 Ministry of Manpower, 2024).
Chapter 15
1 Referring to the Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices (TGFEP).  
2 Lee Hsien Loong, “National Day Rally 2021”, Prime Minister’s Office, August 29, 2021.  
3 Tan See Leng, “Transforming MOM to Care for All”, Ministry of Manpower, May 13, 2024. 
4 Manpower 21: Vision of a Talent Capital (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower, 1999),   
 3, https://www.nlb.gov.sg/main/book-detail?cmsuuid=018c083e-1cdc-4115-888d 
 -7d94fc15ccbd.  
5 “Biased job ads: More complaints”, The Straits Times, February 6, 1999.  
6  Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices, “Tripartite Guidelines on Non-Discriminatory  
 Job Advertisements”, 2006.  
7 Ng Eng Hen, “Speech at Launch of the Tripartite Centre for Fair Employment”, Ministry of  
 Manpower, November 20, 2007.  
8 Ministry of Manpower, “Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices Released by the Tripartite  
 Alliance for Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP)”, May 3, 2007.  
9 Head S – Ministry of Manpower, Parliament of Singapore, March 8, 2007.  
10 “Fair-hiring watchdog makes progress despite downturn”, my Paper, January 21, 2010. 
11 “Statistics don’t tell the whole story”, The Straits Times, January 27, 2010.  
12 “New guidelines to fight workplace discrimination”, The Straits Times, March 9, 2007.  
13 “Time to toughen up Tafep”, The Straits Times, April 17, 2013.  
14 “Pro-foreigner job ads top list of grievances”, The Straits Times, April 28, 2012.  
15 “Govt not ruling out anti-discrimination laws at workplaces”, TODAY, May 21, 2013.  
16 “Fair Consideration Framework (FCF)”, Ministry of Manpower, accessed January 27, 2025,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/employment-practices/fair-consideration-framework. Notes
31 Tan See Leng, “Ensuring Bulk of New Jobs Created Will Go to Singapore Citizens and   
 Residents, Including Those Above Age 40”, Parliament of Singapore, April 2, 2024. 
32 Ministry of Manpower, “Labour Market in 2Q 2024”, September 17, 2024,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press-releases/2024/0917-labour-market-in-2q-2024.  
33 MOM book interview with Tan See Leng on November 29, 2024.
Chapter 14
1 Tan See Leng, “Opening Remarks at Mediacorp Career Forward”, March 23, 2024,  
 https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/speeches/2024/0323-speech-by-minister-tan-at- 
 mediacorp-career-forward. The inaugural Mediacorp Career Forward was an event  
 organised by Mediacorp in partnership with SkillsFuture Singapore and Workforce   
 Singapore. See also Tan See Leng, “Opening Address at MENDAKI Symposium 2023”,  
  July 13, 2023, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/speeches/2023/0713-opening-  
 address-by-minister-for-manpower-dr-tan-see-leng-at-mendaki-symposium-2023.  
2 “Oral Answer to PQ on CareersFinder and Career Health”, Ministry of Manpower,  
 May 8, 2023, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/parliament-questions-and-  
 replies/2023/0508-oral-answer-to-pq-on-careersfinder-and-career-health. 
3 MOM book interview with Kenny Tan on November 1, 2024.  
4 “Industry Transformation Maps to be Refreshed over the Next Five Years”, The Business Times,  
 April 30, 2021.  
5 MOM book interview with Kenny Tan on November 1, 2024.  
6 World Economic Forum, The Future of Jobs Report 2023, April 30, 2023.  
7 Ng Chee Khern, Speech at MOM Workplan Seminar, May 10, 2023. 
8 MOM book interview with Ng Chee Khern on December 3, 2024.  
9 See “About Career Health SG”, Workforce Singapore, https://www.wsg.gov.sg/home/  
 campaigns/career-health. The Forward Singapore (Forward SG) exercise was launched by  
 the Government in June 2022 to engage Singaporeans on how they should refresh their   
 social compact.  
10 “NTUC’s e2i to Expand Career Services Islandwide With Effect From 1 April 2024”,  
 March 11, 2024, https://www.wsg.gov.sg/home/media-room/media-releases/ntuc-s-e2i- 
 to-expand-career-services-islandwide-with-effect-from-1-april-2024. WSG, however,   
	 would	still	run	its	flagship	Careers	Connect	platform	at	the	Lifelong	Learning	 Institute,	 
 as well as its mobile network of Careers Connect On-The-Go.  
11 Ng Chee Khern, “Speech at Workplan Seminar”, May 13, 2024.  
12 MOM book interview with Aubeck Kam on July 24, 2024.  
13 Utilisation Rate by Singaporeans of CareersFinder, Parliament of Singapore, September 9,   
 2024, https://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/#/sprs3topic?reportid=written-answer-na-17599.  
14 “Factsheet on CareersFinder”, Workforce Singapore, https://www.wsg.gov.sg/home/  
 media-room/media-releases-speeches/factsheet-on-careersfinder.  
15 Tan See Leng, “Opening Remarks at Mediacorp Career Forward”, March 23, 2024, https:// 
 www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/speeches/2024/0323-speech-by-minister-tan-at-mediacorp 
 -career-forward.  
16 Alliance for Action on Widening Access to Talent (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower and   
 Singapore National Employers Federation, 2024), https://www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/  
 mom/documents/press-releases/2024/afa_wideningaccesstotalent_report.pdf.  
17 Jobs-Skills Portal, “Frameworks”, https://jobsandskills.skillsfuture.gov.sg/frameworks/skills- 
 frameworks.  
18 SkillsFuture Singapore, “Singapore’s Ministry of Manpower and SkillsFuture Singapore Enter  
 Partnership with Jobstreet by SEEK to Advance Career Health Movement”, February 11, 2025,  
 https://www.skillsfuture.gov.sg/newsroom/singapore-s-ministry-of-manpower-and- 
 skillsfuture-singapore-enter-partnership-with-jobstreet-by-seek-to-advance-career-health- 
 movement.  370 371
Charting Our Path41 Gan Siow Huang, “Oral Answer to PQ on Queries on TG-FWAR,” 
 Parliament of Singapore, May 7, 2024, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/parliament- 
 questions-and-replies/2024/0507-oral-answer-to-pq-on-queries-on-tg-fwar.  
42 Advancing Mental Health, Parliament of Singapore, February 7, 2024.  
43 Gan Siow Huang, “Speech at Parliament Motion on Mental Health and Well-Being”,   
 February 7, 2024, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/speeches/2024/0207-speech-by- 
 mos-gan-at-parliament-motion-on-mental-health-and-well-being.  
44 “iWorkHealth”, WSH Council, Tripartite Alliance for Workplace Safety and Health,   
 accessed February 6, 2025, https://www.tal.sg/wshc/programmes/iworkhealth/overview.  
45 “Prevalence of poor mental health increasing in Singapore; young adults have highest   
 proportion at 25.3%”, Channel NewsAsia, September 27, 2023.  
46 “Commentary: What happens when women have to juggle ‘worry work’ with paid work”,  
 Channel NewsAsia, March 8, 2022.
Chapter 16
1 Terence Ho, Future-Ready Governance: Perspectives on Singapore and the World    
 (Singapore: World Scientific Publishing, 2024).  
2 Singapore Department of Statistics, “Using Decomposed Total Fertility Rate (TFR) to   
 Understand the Drivers for the Decline of TFR in Singapore.” Statistics Singapore Newsletter,  
 Vol. Issue 1, 2024, https://www.singstat.gov.sg/-/media/files/publications/population/ssn124- 
 pg1-6.ashx. 
3 Population in Brief, (Singapore: National Population and Talent Division, Strategy Group, Prime  
 Minister’s Office Singapore Department of Statistics Ministry of Home Affairs Immigration &  
 Checkpoints Authority Ministry of Manpower September 2024,) https://www.population.gov.  
 sg/files/media-centre/publications/Population_in_Brief_2024.pdf; “Population and Population  
 Structure”, Singapore Department of Statistics, https://www.singstat.gov.sg/find-data/search- 
 by-theme/population/population-and-population-structure/latest-data.  
4 Report: Labour Force in Singapore Advance Release 2024 (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower, 2024). 
5 Lawrence Wong, “National Day Rally 2024”, Prime Minister’s Office, August 18, 2024,   
 www.pmo.gov.sg/Newsroom/National-Day-Rally-2024.  
6 MOM book interview with Peter Seah on July 18, 2024.  
7 Tan See Leng, Speech at MOM Workplan Seminar 2024.  
8 Ng Chee Khern, Speech at MOM Workplan Seminar 2024.  
9 MOM book interview with Ng Chee Khern on December 3, 2024.Notes
17 Ministry of Manpower, “Background on the Fair Consideration Watchlist”, accessed   
 February 6, 2025, https://www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/press-  
 releases/2020/0805-annex-a---background-on-fair-consideration-framework- 
 watchlist.pdf.  
18 “The Big Read: Paternity leave helps but for men to take on a fair share of parenting, a rethink of  
 gender roles is needed”, Channel NewsAsia, October 2, 2023.  
19 Economic Survey of Singapore 2020 (Singapore: Ministry of Trade and Industry, 2021),  
 84, https://www.mti.gov.sg/Resources/Economic-Survey-of-Singapore/2020/Economic- 
 Survey-of-Singapore-2020.  
20 Labour Force in Singapore 2020: Impact of COVID-19 on the Labour Market (Singapore:   
 Manpower Research and Statistics Department, Ministry of Manpower, 2021), 46,  
 https://stats.mom.gov.sg/Pages/Labour-Force-In-Singapore-2020.aspx.  
21 Labour Market Report (Singapore: Manpower Research and Statistics Department, Ministry of  
 Manpower, 2021), 31, https://stats.mom.gov.sg/iMAS_PdfLibrary/mrsd-Labour-Market-Report- 
 4Q-2020.pdf. 
22 “Covid-19 digital push raises risk of older workers being displaced: observers”,  
 The Business Times, June 27, 2022.  
24 Strengthening Support for Professionals, Managers and Executives (PMEs) (Singapore:   
 National Trades Union Congress, Singapore National Employers Federation, 2021), 3-11,   
 https://snef.org.sg/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/NTUC-SNEF-PME-Taskforce-Report.pdf.  
25 MOM book interview with Chia Der Jiun on September 2, 2024. 
26 Building Fairer and More Harmonious Workplaces: Tripartite Committee on Workplace   
 Fairness Final Report (Singapore: Ministry of Manpower; National Trades Union Congress;  
 Singapore National Employers Federation, 2023), 5, https://snef.org.sg/wp-content/  
 uploads/2021/10/NTUC-SNEF-PME-Taskforce-Report.pdf.  
27 Building Fairer and More Harmonious Workplaces: Tripartite Committee on Workplace   
 Fairness Final Report, 13.  
28 “A history of human rights in Britain”, Equality and Human Rights Commission,  
 October 9, 2018, https://www.equalityhumanrights.com/human-rights/what-are-human- 
 rights/history-human-rights-britain.  
29 MOM book interview with Tan See Leng on November 29, 2024.  
30 MOM book interview with Tan See Leng on November 29, 2024.  
31 MOM book interview with Ng Chee Meng on June 28, 2024.  
32 Tan See Leng, “Second Reading Speech at Workplace Fairness Legislation Bill”,  
 Ministry of Manpower, January 7, 2025, https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/  
 speeches/2025/0107-second-reading-speech-for-workplace-fairness-legislation-bill.  
33 Tan See Leng, “Second Reading Speech at Workplace Fairness Legislation Bill”,  
 Ministry of Manpower, January 7, 2025.  
34 Tan See Leng, “Second Reading Speech at Workplace Fairness Legislation Bill”,  
 Ministry of Manpower, January 7, 2025.  
35 Labour Force in Singapore: 2023 Edition (Singapore: Manpower Research and Statistics   
 Department, Ministry of Manpower, 2024), 29, https://stats.mom.gov.sg/iMAS_   
 PdfLibrary/mrsd_2023LabourForce.pdf.  
36 “60% of food delivery riders in Singapore signed up during Covid-19 pandemic: Survey”,  
 The Straits Times, March 30, 2022.  
37 Platform Workers Bill, Parliament of Singapore, September 9, 2024.  
38 Platform Workers Bill, Parliament of Singapore, September 9, 2024.  
39 Ministry of Manpower (Addendum to the President’s Address), Parliament of Singapore,   
 August 24, 2020. 
40 Tripartite Guidelines on Flexible Work Arrangement Requests (Singapore: Ministry of   
 Manpower, National Trades Union Congress, Singapore National Employers Federation,  
 2024), 3, https://www.mom.gov.sg/-/media/mom/documents/press-releases/2024/  
	 tripartite-guidelines-on-flexible-work-arrangement-requests.pdf.  372 373
Charting Our PathIndex
A 
Abdul Rahman, Tunku  15  
Advisory Committee on Platform Workers (PWAC)  307  
Ahmad Ibrahim  321  
Air Line Pilots Association of Singapore (Alpa-S)  32 , 33, 34Alliance for Action (AfA) on 
Widening Access to Talent  294 , 296 
Annual Wage Supplement (AWS)  24 , 65 
artificial intelligence (AI)  121 , 122, 281, 288 , 292, 312, 314 
Asian Financial Crisis  37 , 127, 130, 131, 134, 137, 143, 147, 177 
Assurance, Care and Engagement (ACE) Group  185, 240, 241, 273
B 
Barisan Sosialis  16  
Barker, Edmund William  323  
Barnett, Doak  7  
Basic Education for Skills Training (BEST)  52 , 53 
Basic Retirement Sum  86  
bizSAFE  163  
British military  10 , 11, 47 
British Military Withdrawal (1967-1971)  10 , 47 
Byrne, Kenneth Michael  9 , 10, 16, 320 
C 
Career Conversion Programmes (CCPs)  296  
career health  154 , 288 , 289, 290, 291, 292, 294, 295, 328 
Career Health SG  16 , 291, 293, 315 
CareersFinder  292 , 293IndexCareers & Skills Passport  293 , 295
Central Provident Fund Act  218
Central Provident Fund (CPF)  12 , 37, 60, 63, 64, 66, 70, 72, 75, 76, 77, 81, 82, 83, 86, 
129, 130, 131, 134, 140, 174, 210, 212, 214, 216, 217, 299, 316, 323, 324, 327
CPF Advisory Panel  83
Central Provident Fund (CPF) Board  335
CPF Lifelong Income For the Elderly (CPF LIFE)  70 , 81, 82, 83, 325, 326
Centre for Domestic Employees (CDE)  191 , 251
CET Masterplan  149
Cham Hui Fong  40
Chan Chun Sing  184 , 331
Cheah Kean Huat  95
Chia Der Jiun  187 , 274, 304, 330, 333
Chia, Diana  151 , 184, 223, 331, 334
Child Development Co-savings Act  302
Circuit Breaker  240 , 255, 256, 258, 259
collective bargaining  5 , 9, 18, 322
Committee on the Problems of the Aged  72 , 73
Complementarity Assessment Framework (COMPASS)  280 , 281, 328
Construction Temporary Quarters (CTQs)  236
contact tracing  260
continuing education and training (CET)  141 , 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151
Core Skills for Effectiveness and Change (COSEC)  52 , 53
corrective wage policy  55 , 59, 60, 62
COVID-19  12 , 37, 168, 185, 186, 239, 240 , 254, 255, 258, 259, 260, 263, 265, 266, 267, 
268, 270, 272, 273, 274, 277, 284, 297, 298, 307, 308 , 326, 328
D
Delta variant  266
De Payva, John  130 , 331374 375
Charting Our PathDependency Ratio Ceiling  203 , 283, 284
Domestic Servant Scheme  245
Dormitory Transition Scheme  239
dot-com recession  127 , 133
Draw-Down Age  82
 
E
Economic Committee  63, 73, 112
Economic Development Board (EDB)  28 , 30, 46, 48, 92, 101, 108, 132, 279
Economic Expansion Incentives Act (1967)  46
Economic Review Committee  135 , 145
Economic Strategies Committee  200
Employment Act  4 , 12, 17, 19, 218, 244, 322, 327
employment agency (EA)  114 , 249, 251, 252
Employment and Employability Institute (e2i)  141 , 149, 150, 151, 291
Employment Assistance Payment (EAP)  78 , 79
Employment of Foreign Manpower Act (EFMA)  235 , 244
Employment of Foreign Workers Act  234, 235
Employment Pass (EP)  106 , 107, 109, 278, 280 , 281, 282, 283, 284, 285, 286
employment policies  206
Enactment of the Employment Act (1968)  12 , 17, 322
Enhanced Work-Life Grant (WLG)  258 , 259
Enterprise Singapore  279
F
Factories Act (1973)  54 , 156, 157, 160, 161, 321, 325
Factory-Converted Dormitory (FCD)  236 , 239, 261
Fair Consideration Framework (FCF)  206 , 301
FCF Watchlist  302
Fisher, Dale  261Index
flexible wage system  65 , 66, 129, 136, 137, 324, 325
Flexible Work Arrangement Requests (FWAR)  188 , 308
Flexible Work Arrangements (FWA)  80 , 99, 218, 259, 299, 308 , 309
Foreign Domestic Worker Association  251
Foreign Employee Dormitories Act (FEDA)  237 , 238, 239, 270
Forward Assurance and Support Teams (FAST)  186 , 261, 268
Forward SG  86 , 87
G
Gamba, Charles  10
Gan Kim Yong  38 , 41, 79, 80, 118, 141, 182, 202, 203, 217, 300 , 326, 329, 333
Gan Siow Huang  188 , 192, 309, 329
Global Financial Crisis  37 , 127, 137, 139, 143, 182, 199, 221, 313, 326
Global Talent Competitiveness Index  103 , 277
Goh Chok Tong  57 , 61, 62, 63, 91, 96, 108, 144, 145, 179, 180
Goh Keng Swee  8 , 14, 45, 46, 232
Great STC Strike  7
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)  23 , 24, 47, 56, 62, 134, 137, 255, 258
H
H1N1  273
Halimah Yacob  182
Han, Penny  115 , 116, 117, 123, 187, 333
Heng Chee How  185
Heng Swee Keat  208 , 263
high-wage policy  59 , 323
Hock Lee Bus Riot  3 , 6, 7, 8
Home Team  261
Hon Sui Sen  21 , 23, 46, 51376 377
Charting Our PathHo Siong Hin  157 , 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167, 179, 333
Household Services Scheme (HSS)  252 , 253
Housing and Development Board (HDB)  198 , 257, 262
Howe Yoon Chong  72
human resources (HR)  11 , 94, 188, 294, 295, 296, 299, 300
Hu, Richard  134
Hydril strike  27 , 28, 29, 30, 31, 174
I
Indranee Rajah  68
Industrial Arbitration Court (IAC)  4 , 10, 14, 320
industrialisation  20 , 11, 19, 22, 24, 26, 43, 45, 46, 47, 48, 53, 56, 57, 62, 322
Industrial Relations Ordinance  9 , 10, 14, 320
Industry Transformation Maps (ITMs)  208 , 209, 289, 296
Institute for Adult Learning  150
Institute of Mental Health (IMH)  268 , 310
Institute of Technical Education (ITE)  132 , 133, 147, 149, 211
Inter-agency Task Force (ITF)  240 , 241, 261
International Labour Organization (ILO)  22 , 143, 166, 184, 222, 243
iWorkHealth  310
J
Jayakumar, S.  73 , 107, 246, 324
Jek Yeun Thong  322
job matching  154 , 292, 295
Jobs Credit Scheme  139 , 140, 326
Job Situation Report  265
Jobs Support Scheme (JSS)  264
Jobs Transformation Maps (JTMs)  208 , 296Index
K
Kam, Aubeck  83 , 154, 185, 240, 241 , 250, 261, 274, 281, 292, 330, 333
Kandasamy, G.  16
Khoo Teck Puat  269
Koh Poh Koon  186 , 192, 307, 308 , 329
Kok Ping Soon  122
Kuek, Desmond  36
L
Lee Boon Yang  74 , 75, 76, 93, 94, 96, 97, 98, 100, 103, 104, 113, 129, 130, 178, 198, 246, 
325, 333
Lee Hsien Loong  11 , 13, 15, 33, 63, 67, 78, 82, 97, 106, 109, 110, 135, 137, 148, 151, 164, 178, 
181, 199, 212, 227, 228, 263, 277, 278, 298
Lee Kuan Yew  8 , 9, 19, 20, 21, 23, 32, 34, 50, 57, 60, 91, 172, 173, 200
Lee, Moses  93 , 330, 333
Lee, Stephen  66 , 79, 130, 134, 136, 142, 143, 179, 182, 184, 332, 334
Lee Tzu Yang  158
Lee Yock Suan  64 , 66, 174, 175, 233, 246, 324, 329, 333
Lembaga Gerakan Pelajaran Dewasa  147
Lever, S.F.T.B. 21
lifelong learning  12 , 95, 96, 99, 100, 103, 144, 146, 151, 152, 153, 154, 288 , 325, 326
Lifelong Learning Institute  150
Lim Boon Heng  20 , 33, 35, 38, 64, 131, 132, 135, 137, 179, 331, 334
Lim Chong Yah  21 , 22, 58, 59, 60, 129, 130, 131, 173
Lim Swee Say  20 , 78, 79, 132, 138, 139, 141, 153, 182, 184, 199, 203, 204 , 205, 206, 219, 
222, 224, 226, 227, 228, 327, 331, 333
Lim Yew Hock  4 , 7, 320
Lin Cheng Ton  95
Little India Riot  184 , 237
Local Qualifying Salary  283378 379
Charting Our PathLoh, Felix  225
Loh Khum Yean  140 , 152, 182, 207, 223, 237, 241, 330, 333
Low Yen Ling  185 , 329
M
Magnus, Richard  158
Mahmud Awang  16
Majulah Package  87 , 316
Malaysian Movement Control Order  256
Manpower 21  94 , 96, 97, 98, 99, 102, 103, 104, 144, 178, 299, 314, 325
Melchers, Alexander C.  185
Migrant Domestic Worker (MDW)  106 , 114, 120, 191, 198, 231, 243, 284
migrant workers  12 , 54, 55, 106, 110, 112, 113, 121, 122, 184, 185, 198, 204 , 231, 232, 233,  
234, 235, 236, 237, 238, 239, 240 , 241, 242, 252, 254, 256, 257, 259, 260, 261, 262, 
263, 268, 269, 270, 271, 272, 274
Migrant Workers’ Centre  235 , 239, 268
Minimum Sum  81 , 82, 83, 324, 325
Ministerial Committee on Low Wage Workers  210 , 212, 215
Ministry of Digital Development and Information (MDDI)  261
Ministry of Education (MOE)  19 , 149, 153, 293, 335
Ministry of Finance (MOF)  15 , 23, 52
Ministry of Health (MOH)  261
Ministry of Labour and Welfare (MOLW)  19 , 4, 7, 8, 9, 320
Ministry of Labour (MOL)  19 , 4, 9, 21, 23, 26, 28, 30, 31, 48, 54, 64, 72, 74, 75, 77, 92, 93, 
112, 171, 175, 245, 246, 320, 321, 325
Ministry of National Development (MND)  160 , 354
Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI)  19 , 51, 59, 108, 129, 204 , 207, 315
Ministry of Transport (MOT)  35 , 160
Modernization of the Labour Movement seminar (1969)  18
Modular Skills Training (MOST)  52Index
Monthly Variable Component  134 , 135
Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF)  261
MyCareersFuture  290 , 292
N
Nair, Devan  16 , 18, 150, 172, 331
National Day Rally  78 , 82, 108, 151, 181, 227, 228, 277, 298, 312
National Employers Council (NEC)  26 , 245
National Longevity Insurance Committee  82
National Manpower Council (NMC)  99 , 103
National Productivity Board (NPB)  48 , 49, 50, 53, 321
National Productivity Centre (NPC)  48
National Skills Council (NSC)  102 , 103
National Trades Union Congress (NTUC)  15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 29, 31, 33, 
34, 35, 40, 48, 52, 63, 64, 72, 77, 79, 95, 128, 131, 132, 133, 139, 141, 145, 147, 149, 151, 
172, 176, 179, 182, 184, 185, 186, 191, 221, 222, 223, 224, 239, 258, 264, 265, 291, 294, 
296, 303, 305, 314, 321, 323, 327, 331, 334, 335 
National Wages Council (NWC)  21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 41, 51, 58, 59, 60, 61, 64, 65, 129, 130, 
131, 134, 135, 173, 177, 191, 258, 313, 323, 334
NESST Singapore  239
Ng Chee Khern  19 , 21, 187, 189, 190, 191, 283, 290, 292, 316, 330, 333
Ng Chee Meng  185 , 222, 223, 303, 305, 331, 334
Ng Eng Hen  33 , 82, 110, 111, 133, 134, 146, 149, 150, 157, 158, 161, 162, 179, 211, 212, 213, 
215, 217, 234, 300 , 325, 329, 333
Ngiam Tong Dow  59
Ng Teng Fong  269
Nicoll Highway collapse  156 , 158, 180
NTUC-SNEF PME Taskforce  303380 381
Charting Our PathO
oil crisis  58 , 60
Oil Crisis (1972-1973)  24
Omicron  266
Ong Pang Boon  48 , 49, 54, 60, 61, 321
Ong Teng Cheong  27 , 28, 63, 323, 331
Ong Yen Her  20 , 30, 62, 64, 74, 75, 76, 77, 81, 93, 134, 138, 175, 333
Overseas Markets Immersion Programme (OMIP)  279
Overseas Networks & Expertise (ONE) Pass  278 , 328
P
Part-Time Re-employment Grant  80
Passage of the Industrial Relations Ordinance (1960)  9 , 10, 14, 320
Pathmarajah, Allan  95
Payout Eligibility Age  82
People-for-Jobs Traineeship Programme  147
platform workers  190 , 307, 308 , 315, 328
Platform Workers Act  299
Platform Workers Bill  190 , 308 , 315
Polaris  293
Primary Care Plan  241 , 271
productive longevity  69 , 314, 315
productivity  12 , 22, 23, 25, 26, 28, 48, 49, 50, 53, 55, 57, 58, 59, 61, 62, 65, 66, 71, 73, 92, 
98, 101, 112, 131, 173, 198, 199, 200 , 201, 202, 203, 204 , 205, 207, 208 , 214, 217, 
218, 219, 220, 221, 222, 223, 224, 225, 228, 232, 283, 285, 290, 294, 311, 314, 315, 
321, 324, 326, 327
Professionals, Managers, Executives, and Technicians (PMETs)  85 , 149, 198, 280 , 282, 
283, 285, 298, 301, 302, 303, 304, 312
Progressive Wage Model (PWM)  16 , 212, 219, 220, 223, 224, 225, 226, 227, 228, 314, 326, 
327, 328
Project DAWN (Depression, Awareness, Wellbeing, Normalisation)  268Index
Purpose-Built Dormitory (PBD)  192 , 236, 237, 238, 239, 261
R
Rajaratnam, S.  11, 12, 19, 50, 71, 322
recession  28 , 37, 57, 62, 63, 64, 66, 67, 71, 73, 91, 106, 110, 112, 113, 127, 128, 130, 132, 133, 
137, 154, 174, 233, 255, 303, 323, 324
Recreation Centre (RC)  238 , 269
re-employment  16 , 40, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 84, 85, 181, 302, 314, 326, 327, 328
RENGO (Japanese Trade Union Confederation)  77
reStructuring Wages AcTion (SWAT)  136
retirement adequacy  15 , 68, 70, 81, 86, 307, 312, 316, 325, 327
Retirement Age Act  76 , 326
Retirement and Re-employment Act  80 , 302
Ryder, Guy  40 , 184
S
S11 Dormitory @ Punggol  260
SATU (Singapore Association of Trade Unions)  16
Seah, Peter  191 , 313, 334
Self-Employed Person  216 , 265
Self-Employed Person Income Relief Scheme (SIRS)  265
Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)  32 , 37, 67, 109, 110, 127, 135, 137, 139, 143, 
144, 264, 273, 325
SGUnited Mid-Career Pathways Programme  272
Silver Support Scheme  86 , 210, 327, 328
Sim Gim Guan  188 , 282, 334
Singapore Airlines (SIA)  31 , 32, 33, 34, 37, 38
Singapore Armed Forces (SAF)  261
Singapore Business Federation Foundation  269
Singapore International Chamber of Commerce (SICC)  21382 383
Charting Our PathSingapore National Employers Federation (SNEF)  19 , 20, 26, 30, 40, 48, 61, 66, 75, 79, 
85, 134, 136, 142, 152, 175, 179, 182, 184, 185, 187, 188, 191, 225, 258, 264, 268, 282, 
294, 295, 296, 303, 305, 313, 335
Singapore Trades Union Congress (STUC)  15 , 16, 17, 320
Siow, Jeffrey  192 , 315, 330
Sit Yin Fong  3
Skills Development Fund  51 , 100, 132, 145, 147
Skills Development Levy Act  51
SkillsFuture  80 , 100, 103, 151, 152, 153, 291, 296, 315, 326, 335
SkillsFuture Jobseeker Support  315
SkillsFuture Singapore (SSG)  103 , 153, 291, 293, 295, 335
Skills Programme for Upgrading and Resilience (SPUR)  140 , 141, 142, 326
Skills Redevelopment Programme (SRP)  128 , 132, 133, 145, 147
skills upgrading  12 , 109, 137, 138, 143, 147, 150, 151, 154, 215, 216, 217
SMRT  31 , 34, 35, 36, 37, 183
Sng, Silas  168 , 169
S Pass  106 , 109, 111, 120, 203, 280 , 281, 282, 284, 285
Special Employment Credit  203
Standards, Productivity and Innovation Board (SPRING)  145
St. Andrew’s Mission Hospital  269
Stenson, Michael  5
structural unemployment  100 , 131, 132, 147, 212
T
Tan Chin Nam  94 , 95, 99, 104, 178, 330, 333
Tan Chuan-Jin  237 , 238, 249, 301, 327
Tan Hee Teck  152 , 187, 191, 295, 332, 334
Tan, Kenny  187 , 284, 286, 289, 290, 333
Tan Kin Lian  95
Tan See Leng  15 , 16, 69, 185, 187, 188, 189, 192, 227, 239, 262, 269, 270, 271, 272, 278, 
281, 284, 285, 287, 288 , 289, 293, 294, 295, 299, 305, 306, 313, 328, 333Index
Tan, Tony  63
Teamy  50
Teo Chee Hean  178
Teo, Josephine  39 , 70, 84, 85, 153, 185, 227, 255, 256, 261, 262, 267, 308 , 328, 333
Thanaletchimi, K.  191 , 331
Tharman Shanmugaratnam  151 , 152, 200 , 201, 221, 326
Then Yee Thoong  273
Trade Unions Act  4 , 17, 29, 34, 322
tripartism  11, 15,  19, 20, 24, 25, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 63, 64, 139, 172, 174, 
176, 184, 306, 313, 322
Tripartite Advisory on the Re-employment of Older Workers  78
Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP)  206 , 298, 299, 300 , 301, 304, 
306, 327
Tripartite Committee on the Extension of the Retirement Age  77
Tripartite Committee on Workplace Fairness  304
Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices (TGFEP)  300 , 304, 306
Tripartite Guidelines on Managing Excess Manpower  138 , 142
Tripartite Guidelines on Non-Discriminatory Job Advertisements  299
Tripartite Upturn Strategy Teams (TRUST)  142
Tripartite Workgroup on Older Workers  69 , 84, 185
Tung Yui Fai  241
U
Unity Budget  264
upskilling  53 , 134, 151, 325, 326
V
vaccine-differentiated measures  267
Vocational and Industrial Training Board  147384 385
Charting Our PathW
wage reform  64 , 65, 66, 67, 129, 216, 324
Westlite Toh Guan  260
Winsemius, Albert  9 , 21, 23, 24, 58, 59, 60
Wong Kan Seng  247
Wong, Lawrence  188 , 312
Worker Improvement through Secondary Education (WISE)  52
Workfare  12 , 210, 212, 213, 214, 216, 217, 265, 326
Workfare Bonus  216
Workfare Income Supplement (WIS)  210 , 222, 325, 328
Workfare Skills Support  212
Workfare Skills Support (WSS) Scheme  217
Workfare Training Support Scheme (WTSS)  217
Workforce Development Agency (WDA)  103 , 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151, 153, 
179, 180
Workforce Singapore (WSG)  103 , 153, 154, 189, 291, 292, 293, 335
Workforce Skills Qualifications (WSQ)  148 , 164, 212
Workforce Vaccination Measures (WVM)  267
Work Injury Compensation Act (WICA)  165 , 168
Workmen’s Compensation (Amendment) Bill (1971)  53
work pass  106 , 109, 111, 114, 118, 119, 120, 121, 187, 203, 235, 280 , 282, 283, 333
Work Permit  54, 55, 58, 73, 106, 112, 118, 119, 198, 202, 231, 236, 237, 245, 282, 283, 284
Workplace Fairness Act  315
Workplace Fairness Legislation  286 , 299
Workplace Safety and Health Advisory Committee  158
Workplace Safety and Health (WSH)  156 , 157, 158, 160, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167, 168, 
180, 183, 309, 325
Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) Council  309
WorkPro  218
Workright  212 , 218, 327Index
World Health Organization (WHO)  254
WSH Act  157 , 158, 160, 166, 180
Y
Yap, Robert  85 , 184, 185, 268, 332, 334
Yeo, George  108
Yip, Leo  142 , 146, 180, 330, 333
Yong Ying-I  135 , 136, 146, 179, 249, 330, 333
Young Seniors  86 , 87
Z
Zainal Sapari  221
Zaqy Mohamad  169 , 186, 192, 226, 228, 329Charting Our Path is about the transformation of 
Singapore’s workforce and workplaces over the past 
70 years – steered by the Ministry of Manpower as it 
sought to strike a balance between its economic and 
social objectives. 
The book details the major milestones in the Ministry's 
history, from creating the conditions for industrial 
peace in the turbulent pre-independence years, 
to preparing the workforce with the skills needed to 
support economic growth, and cushioning the impact 
of economic crises on workers and businesses. 
Through these historical accounts, it explains the 
Ministry's efforts to translate economic growth into 
socio-economic progress for Singaporeans.